The Pit argues every fucking hour of what passes for a day here and he's getting pretty goddamn tired of it.  Especially since it shouldn't be able to argue.
"Not yet," he grates out, ignoring the seared landscape and occasional corrupted soul at the very edge of the Pit's domain, borderlands made of the tortured dead too crazy even for Hell, and he's one of them.  He's been running forever, barely ahead of the shits sent to make him kneel for the fucker they call master.  Not happening: in a straight fight, he knows right now he could win, but not yet. 
He just wishes he could remember why. Why he's running, why he's waiting, why he can't take it all.  Not yet. There's something else he's got to do first, and it would sure fucking help if he could remember what.
The Pit hides him.  At least, he thinks it does, grinding its displeasure like the sound of gravel in a blender, but it's doing something, that much is clear.  Not that he's risked it anywhere near the rack or where the fucker sits in state since he got away.  The Pit's resentment of the fucker's becoming a problem, or would be if he noticed: not too bright.  He could--not yet.
It's also not entirely happy about where he's going, but it's not fighting him, either, and that's enough.  Enough to keep control of himself: he's got plans, and he can't afford to indulge the rage and betrayal yet for making him wait, but--but that's for after.  After, he's gonna teach his recalcitrant buddy a lesson in loyalty, and he'll start by chopping it up and let it spend the next millennia with its pieces buried all over the goddamn Pit in solid--

Not yet

--stop.  Plan.  First, get it, fix it (at least enough to do its goddamn job), and go from there.  The rest--it'll wait. He's patient.  Fuck knows he's learned that much.
Coming around the curve of a shaved cliff he doesn't recognize, he stops short, fighting down the desire to rip apart the figure slumped against bare, rust-red rock, stone of the same color spread out beneath him.  There's a long moment where he's not sure it noticed him yet, but the dark head turns, exhausted, red-rimmed blue eyes meeting his.  There's a dangerous moment where he thinks it just might run--and no way can he control himself if it does that, fuck--before it slumps back against the cliff.
"Hey, sweetheart," he says pleasantly; this is gonna be done with a pair of pliers, shredding, barely enough to even bury, he can already feel them in his hand and hear it screaming.  "Got lost?"
"Alistair," it says, and the Pit surges forward eagerly--no, not yet--though he can't remember why he's waiting, he knows he has to.  It stares at him for a long time before it frowns, blue eyes widening.  "Dean?"
He staggers, grabbing for the cliff: Dean.  That'd be it.  That's what he was waiting for.
Swallowing in a dry mouth, he feel the thrum spread through him and hopes the Pit's hiding him because no way would even that fucker could miss this.  Breathing through the shock, he pulls himself together again piece by piece before he loses it again, what they took: Dean.
"It worked," he breathes.  Dean: that's his name, and that's everything.
"Dean?" it--no, he says again, and Dean takes a deep breath and smiles at him, ignoring the flinch; it's fine, whatever, everything's back on track.
"Yeah," he agrees, looking Cas over: filthy and exhausted and hurt, his first impulse now is to track down everything that fucking touched him and introduce them to the once and future Master of the Pit.  It's gonna happen, soon; he'll let Cas watch.
Crossing over to him, Dean drops in a crouch, relieved that Cas doesn't flinch again when he reaches out to tilt his head up, fighting back rage: soon, he tells himself and feels the Pit hum in anticipation.  On a guess, whoever's been after him is in a lot worse shape; he'll have to ask about that.
"What have you been doing to yourself?" he asks, turning Cas's head carefully, reading his condition by touch and liking nothing he's picking up.  Running on empty and even that's almost out: nowhere in Hell to hide and no one to protect him, with a price on his head the highest ever offered.  He remembers laughing on the rack when he heard about it, choking on his own shredded lungs and unable to stop: best joke he ever heard, catch Cas?  Tell the mountain to bow, shithead: tell the moon to fall and the sun to rise and end the universe with a big bang all your own, your chances are better doing all three.  The only time anyone catches Cas is when he wants to be caught.
"Dean?" Cas breathes in disbelief, then shakes his head, belatedly trying to pull away.  Dean tightens his grip but doesn't make the mistake of turning this into a competition. Cas may escape with a broken jaw, but he will escape, and he can't risk that, not now that he's here.  "No. You're not--"
"I am," he says, testing it; pretty much, give or take, but that shit he didn't need anyway, not here.  "It worked, Cas.  I told you it would."
Cas shuts his eyes.  "I'm sorry--"
"I'm not."  Though he wouldn't say it was fun; he got someone who couldn't break a goddamn serial killer and it got assigned him?  Bullshit: they're gonna learn about standards and soon. He'll get Cas to teach 'em.  "Cas, look at me."
"Stop it!"
"You're being stupid," Dean says fondly; Cas doesn't get it, that's fine, he'll learn, they got time now.  All of it, come to think.  "Can't run forever, you know that. You came here, didn't you?"
He really wishes Cas would look at him.  "I didn't know where I was going."
"Funny," Dean says, mouth quirking.  "All of Hell, and you come to the one place in the Pit I'm hiding after I get off the rack."  Cas's mouth tightens, and letting him go, Dean shifts to sit beside him.  "It's hiding me, anyway.  What a coincidence, huh?"
Drawing up his legs, Cas drops his head onto his knees, and Dean waits, easy; he planned for this, after all.  Moving slowly--he doesn't pretend Cas can't do some serious damage to him even now--he reaches to tug up Cas's sleeve, hissing at the open sores, rings of bruises, scrapes marring all that skin; he's taking payment for all of it in full, soon.  Cas doesn't lift his head but doesn't fight him either, shivering when Dean traces the binding cut that survived even death; his own shivers in sympathy, relieved not to be stretched so far anymore.  That means something, and Cas knows it as well as he does.  
"I'm tired." Dean holds himself perfectly still.  "I felt you break.  I wasn't--I couldn't get to you in time.  Again."
Which might explain the incompetence of his particular torturer; everyone else was guarding the Pit and never coming back.  Not an excuse, but he gives them credit for knowing how dangerous Cas was, at least.  "How many did you take out?"
The blue eyes flicker up, and Dean catches the cold blue rage, unhealed, unhealing: he likes it.  Can use it, too.  "Not enough."
"It's okay--"
"How?" Cas looks at him, eyes wet, tears drawing pale lines down filthy his cheeks, and Dean reaches out without thinking, wiping them away with his thumb.  "I don't understand, how can you be so much like Dean---"
"I am Dean," he interrupts; okay, he got this. "How long has it been?"
"One hundred and eight years, three months, one week, five days, sixteen hours, twenty-seven minutes, eighteen seconds."  Cas's voice breaks.  "Five years, one month, six days, twenty-eight hours, two minutes and forty-one seconds since you broke."
Felt like longer, but when you have to do half the work for your goddamn torturer, time gets weird.  "It was supposed to be this way," he says, hushing Cas when he starts to protest. "It had to be, Cas."
"It's over," Cas says. "We failed."
Distantly, Dean feels his recruits circling closer and sends a warn-off with prejudice; from the agonized response, he thinks they got the 'not the fucking time'.  "No we haven't," he says.  "We haven't even started. We're gonna win, Cas.  Here."
Cas stiffens, but the instant rejection is absent; he's tired, yeah, and probably stopped thinking around the time Dean broke on the rack. Which is pretty much what he hoped for; he couldn't plan this part, but sometimes, things just work out.
"Hey."  Carefully, he draws a finger down Cas's arm, following the open wounds (can't wait to find out who did that and where to find them). "Gonna fix this up?"
Cas snorts softly.  "You know I can't."
He can, he just doesn't know it yet; Dean's got so much to teach him.  "I can."  Cas stiffens belatedly and Dean adds another check to his side--their side--of the board.  He was never gonna do this without Cas, that was a given, whatever happened; he told Cas they were in this together and that's never changed. "Come on, let me help.  You wanna run, fine but at least let me fix you up so you can."
Cas turns his head against his knee, and the incredulous look almost makes Dean laugh; fuck, he missed him.  "You'll let me leave?"
"I'll never let you go," he answers honestly. "But it'll give you a fighting chance, at least."
The cracked lips part in a soft laugh: check.  "You sound like him--"
"I am him," Dean interrupts.  "You can feel it, Cas, come on."  
Watching Cas carefully, he calls in the knife, blade sharp enough to cut air, and lets go of Cas's arm to draw a short cut near the elbow of his left forearm.  Cas's expression is a few novels, all contradictory--revulsion, rejection, horror, disgust, terror, and the only one that counts--hunger. Check.
"No," Cas says, but the blue eyes never leave that cut, blood welling suggestively.  There's power in blood given freely, but here, at least, there's just as much in accepting it; he wonders if Cas realizes that.  "I won't--"
"You want to run, you're gonna have to."  Cas flickers a look at him, and he knows he won. "It's me, Cas.  Come on, it doesn't have to be this hard."
He can make it easy, though; shifting closer, he holds out his arm and watches Cas bend closer as if drawn, waiting, and finally, the sweep of Cas's tongue against his skin before his lips part around the cut and he starts to suck.
He expected everything but the sheer rush; catching his breath, Dean just manages not to tumble over like an idiot, and he realizes he's got a hand in Cas's hair, holding him there with no memory of actually moving.
Fuck: here he thought Ruby was just getting off fucking up Sam.  He just didn't know.
"That's it," he breathes as Cas fastens a dirty hand around his wrist before doing what Dean almost did; he's ready for it, though, bracing himself when Cas collapses against him.  It takes a long moment to remember what else he's supposed to be doing, but check it out; he doesn't need to do anything but let it happen.  Like it's supposed to: of course it is, what was he thinking, this is him and Cas, this is them.  "There we go.  Take all you want."
If he had the Pit behind him, this might be faster, but Alistair couldn't do this any more than Lucifer could or anyone else; the only one who can corrupt Castiel is Dean.  That's why he needed his name first; names are powerful, wrong one and you just might become them.  He may have to use Alistair's name, but he'll keep his own when he does.  
Already, he can feel it working into Cas; all those subtle cracks everyone has, widening them slowly and carefully, but those wouldn't be enough, not with Cas.  This is about him; him, working his way into Cas, lighting up all the places in Cas that are his, have been since this started.  Infinite mind of an angel: might scare anyone else, but not Dean, never has, and he needs to know if he's right about how this is gonna work. No margin for error: this is Cas, and he's gotta get everything right the first try.
Then Cas jerks back--tries to jerk back, but he doesn't get any farther than leaning against Dean's chest, lips smeared red. That wasn't enough--not nearly enough--but Dean seals the cut for now; might be better this way, let it work in him, offer more.  Cas won't ask this time, or the next, but he will after that, and then he won't need to ask ever again. He'll figure it out.
"I'm so tired," Cas whispers, and Dean gathers him closer, resting his chin in the dark hair and feeling Cas's body shake.  "When you broke, I thought--nothing I did mattered."
Dean nods, but he's got to know.  "What'd you do with the fucker's minions?  None ever came back."
"I put them to good use," Cas says in a different voice, and Dean pulls back to look down and sees a faint smile.  "It took time to decide on the shape, however.  Their screaming was distracting, so I stopped it."
Now that he's thinking about it, it's quiet over here.  The rest of Hell is a cacophony of noise, but here.... "Where are they?"
"Beneath and behind us."  Cas looks up, and bewildered, Dean follows his gaze to the cliff, then the stone floor.  "Ah, I forgot." Raising a hand, he snaps his fingers, and Dean gets a secondhand rush from Cas using his blood-borne power; they're doing that again like, yesterday.  "What do you think?"
Like turning up the volume on the radio, the screaming starts, and it takes Dean a second to work out where it's coming from: everywhere.  The cliff behind them, the rock beneath them--Dean presses a hand against the ground and the screaming intensifies; it's beautiful.  He can feel the Pit hum approval--not a surprise, this is fucking art--and from the way Cas stills, he feels it, too: perfect.  He's gonna be incredible when Dean's done with him; Cas'll be the best he's ever made, he know it.
"Amazing." He kisses Cas and tastes blood; with it comes the memories, a breathtaking flow of images of five years when nothing mattered: only Cas would create a monument to it.  Five years....  He jerks back, startled by the edge of something else.  "You were waiting for me.  Here."  
He waits for Cas to deny it, but he just looks back.  "My death was not my own," he answers.  "Like my life, it belongs to you."
A monument to his once and future death at Dean's hand.  Christ. "That was never gonna happen," he says fiercely; how could Cas think he'd ever--
"Maybe I hoped it would." Before Dean feel anything but horror, he shrugs.  "At least, I thought I did.  As it turns out, that's not what I wanted after all." 
Dean realizes he's clutching Cas hard enough to break bone and with an effort loosens his grip. It never occurred to him that Cas might not--that he....  "Do you even know what you want?"
"The only thing I ever wanted." The blue eyes meeting his.  "You."
Dean breathes out, relief so strong it feels like pain.  "You have me, Cas.  Always."
There's a long moment of silence.  "Convince me."  
"What?"
"Convince me."  Turning his face against Dean's chest, he makes a broken sound, and it's all Dean can do not to claim the Pit now so he can take care of everything that made Cas sound like that.  "I don't care what it is, just convince me to do it."
That, he can do. "I have a plan."
Shifting them back so he can lean against the cliff, Dean gathers him closer and tells him everything.
Just before they start, Cas says,  "Don't stop until it's done."
Dean nods.  It's not like he doesn't know the risks here; he just doesn't care.  Cas is worth anything.  "I know."
"If you can't break me--"
"I will," Dean says; he won't believe anything else.  "Don't worry about it."
"--I don't leave this room," he continues like Dean didn't say anything.  "Not ever."
"I can do this," he says, checking the restraints again; he designed this room a thousand times in his mind just for Cas, and it's everything he imagined.  Smooth volcanic rock that reflects as clearly as a mirror, so he can see Cas from any angle, and just as importantly, Cas can always see him.  He shaped the rack to Cas alone, everything in it everything that Dean knows about him, and Cas made the restraints himself, designed to bind an angel.  Not really required here, though; nothing and no one can hold Cas when he doesn't want to be.  It's gonna take both of them to do this; he doesn't doubt Cas at all and he can't, won't doubt himself.  They can do this.
"One more thing," Cas says, and Dean looks up and drowns in blue eyes.  "Promise me I won't hate you."
"You won't," he says, picking up the first knife.  The only way to break Cas is to make him want it, and the only person that can make him want it is Dean. He can do this.  Pressing the tip into the hollow of his throat, he kisses him one more time.  They have forever now.  "You'll love me.  I promise."
@@@@@@
In the Pit, there is silence, the first in all of Time.  That Crowley is the only one brave enough (or perhaps stupid enough) to enter says a great deal (though what, he's not sure, other than he's very stupid or very brave).
The bleak landscape is transformed into devastation; the burned out twilight sky stained crimson like fresh blood and spreading thin rays over the newly formed labyrinth of mountains and crevasses, abysses torn through solid stone.  Distantly, he can sense the depth of the rack and the business of corruption continues as usual, their screams undiminished but unheard; he's not sure anything has ever been quite so unsettling as the realization that unnatural silence is artificially maintained and with so little effort.
Gone is where Alistair once sat in state, a gaudy potentate on the massive iron throne inlaid with human eyes and human bone, millennia of power pulsing around him; there's now a Black Mountain of jagged stone and icy steel piercing the bloody sky.  There's no question of the completeness of the new ruler's conquest, but the sickening, spongy squish of red stone beneath him, the faint sobbing cries at every step, tells of brutality and ruthlessness beyond any nightmare in Hell.
That does answer the question Crowley had no desire to ask regarding what happened to those purged; they now pave the Pit itself.
Crossing a shadowy bridge that whimpers at every step, Crowley reminds himself he has nothing to fear (provided he's not stupid, of course); he's King of the Crossroads, inherited all of Lilith's power as well as her demesne, and is here by the invitation of the new Master of the Pit. (And he, for one, does not pretend the third isn't the only reason he's here at all: a fool he is not.)
At the base of the Black Mountain is a door, that opens of its own accord, allowing him within and revealing a narrow view of steep stairs that doubtless spiral upward a thousand miles.  It's tempting to walk away, but the presence of shadowy watchers is enough to steel the same pride that once upon a time made an angel fall.
(He is not so much a fool as Lucifer, but he does understand how that sort of thing could happen. It's not hard, no.)
He hopes, however, there is no expectation he will climb a thousand miles of stairs.  There is pride, and then there is far, far too many stairs.
His foot has only to touch the first before he's at the top, so smoothly he didn't feel the transition; for a moment, he wishes more than anything in all his existence that he'd run away or better yet, simply said no and never come at all.
At the top of the stairs is a door, a hundred feet tall and fifty feet wide, and this door the most disturbing thing of all; the elaborately created workings are all sigils, and he can read perhaps a fifth, protection he expected (the new Master of the Pit is no fool) but containment is new, so many bindings like threads, but together.... Mouth dry, Crowley watches the door open, spilling warm yellow light over a gleaming hardwood floor and then braces himself to step inside.
Within the door is a room, a perfect circle set with ten windows, over which the Master can view his entire domain; the room itself is as unsettlingly mundane as the landscape without is not.  A wrought iron bed takes up one side, heavy drapery over airy gauze pulled shut against any trace of light; a fireplace crackles in a corner with a cheerful fire; a half dozen rugs spread against the cool of the floor scattered with sofas and chairs.  Crowley doesn't allow himself to tense as the door swings closed; a torture chamber he'd expect, but not this.
"An improvement," he admits to the figure sprawled on the couch.  "Your predecessor's taste was atrocious."  Pacing around the room--and avoiding the bed, a warning unspoken but crystal clear--he admires the hangings, sigils wrought so cleverly they look like abstract designs before taking the chair across from the couch and takes in his first view of the Pit's new Master.
"Still working on it," he says, turning his head on the cushion with a wide grin, and Crowley just stops himself from flinching at the swell of effortless power in the wide green eyes that grin at him from the far too-pretty face of a man with a very different name.
That makes him curious.  "Alistair," he says, and Alistair tilts his head in acknowledgement, waiting. "Dean?"
The grin widens at Crowley's shock.  "Kept that one, too."  Sitting up in a single movement, he shrugs. "In here, anyway.  Out there, locked it down already."
Crowley nods his understanding of the impossibility of the second when the first is just as impossible.  
"Well started in your reign," Crowley says, balancing an ankle on his knee.  "Thin of company, though."
"Got 'em on that," Dean says carelessly, calling in two dark brown bottles, one settling deliberately on the table nearest Crowley's hand.  He doesn't touch it, and Dean looks his amusement.  "No worries: I invited you, didn't I?"
That much is true, and while he dislikes being toyed with, Crowley reaches for the bottle, drinking what is--he must admit--truly excellent beer; Dean's taste is far better than he thought.  
"Pacification of one's territory is a matter of course, but that was--" An atrocity, even by the standards of Hell.  Inspired, he can't help but admit; he'd just like to know how he did it.  The dissolution and reduction were almost at once before fusion; the most brilliant part is they're all still there, ready for use.  In case the new Master needs their service after all.  "Thorough."
Dean's smile takes on something new and unsettling: fondness.  "Yeah, it's awesome, right?  Just let him have his head and let him work it out," Crowley doesn't stiffen, but it's very hard.  "Had to go somewhere, not like he could turn it on me, right?"  Sitting back, Dean takes a drink from the bottle, faint smile lingering.  "That was the one thing I worried about, we always hate 'em--even Lilith," he says, meeting Crowley's eyes and he stills.  "Just a little more than you loved her.
He takes a breath. "I didn't--"
"You did."  Dean's expression softens.  "Couldn't deal with that. Had to be a way around it, just wasn't sure if I pulled it off first try."  He takes another drink, and for a discordant moment, Dean Winchester is before him.  "But I did.  Shouldn’t have doubted him.  Best I ever made, right from the start."
Crowley has just enough time to start to put it together when there's a rustling sound from the bed, and Dean's attention snaps there despite no change in body or eyes.  His eyebrows jump in amusement.  "You can look."
Does he want to, is the question, but he already is; a pale hand slides to push the curtain back just as a pair of pale feet slide out and a glimpse of jeans.  From the corner of his eye, he sees Dean put down the bottle and stand up just as Castiel's head peers out, glazed blue eyes unseeing, and Crowley vanishes his own bottle before it can hit the floor.
He didn't expect this, and he should have.  "You found him."
Dean flickers back a smile not unmixed with triumph.  "Didn't need to. He came to me."
Castiel blinks slowly, frowning; even from where he is, Crowley can see the thousand cracks in the blue eyes, the lack of focus, volition still sharply limited; he's almost brand new, fresh off the rack.  Which means...Castiel was on it.  Even seeing the unmistakable evidence, it takes far too long for him to believe it.
Dean broke Castiel on the rack.
In the corner of his mind not frozen, Crowley now understands the reason for all the bindings, this room, perhaps even the existence of the mountain itself.  The only doubt he has is if that's enough.
Pushing back the curtains, Dean tilts Castiel's face up to look in his eyes, and Castiel focuses all at once.  "Look at you," Dean says softly, examining him for a long moment, and Crowley knows exactly what he's doing and why.  Castiel isn't just very new; he's still forming and it seems Dean is guiding the process personally.  Not many do, more fool they, but this is different; he's also controlling it.  Crowley never doubted his skill (even Dean's predecessor didn't make that mistake), but he wouldn't have guessed even Dean could maintain this level of focused attention over every detail.  "Feel better?"
Castiel nods dreamily; if Dean asked him to disembowel himself or if the sky were green, he'd give the same response.  "Still tired," is barely a breath.  "I can't--concentrate."
Considering what Dean is doing, Crowley's immensely surprised Castiel can even think, much less speak.
"No worries, always like this at first," Dean says, thumb tracing across Castiel's lower lip, and the faint rust-red streak matching the smear by the corner of Castiel's mouth answers another question he didn't know to ask. "You're doing fine."
Castiel tilts his head, tongue sliding over his lower lip uncertainly and brushing against the tip of Dean's thumb. "I don't like it.  Here."
Dean's response isn't either discipline or even displeasure: he smiles, satisfaction radiating from him.  "Course not," he agrees. "I'm not there." The uncertainty vanishes, and Castiel nods agreeably.  "Come on, let's see how standing works for you."
We always hate 'em, Dean said; now, he thinks he's starting to understand what Dean wanted to do.
Stepping back, Dean helps Castiel to his feet, steadying him when his legs tremble like a newborn foal's.  Crowley takes in the Grateful Dead t-shirt, long arms bare and the healing traces of sigils tracing almost every inch of visible skin, hair a disaster, and step by step, Dean coaxes him back to the couch and easing him down until Dean's sprawled in the corner, Castiel stretched out on the couch, head resting in his lap.  Stroking his hair back, Dean murmurs something, and the blue eyes fall half-closed as Castiel settles in closer and relaxes all at once.
"You realize his Brothers are going to discover where he is very soon?" The price on Castiel's head assures that.
Dean's expression doesn't change, but the room seems to drop several degrees.  "They can't have him."
"If they claim him--"
"They can't," Dean interrupts, and Crowley fights back a shiver at the flat green eyes that meet his. "He's mine."
Castiel's eyes flicker half open, and Crowley doesn't miss the way Dean deliberately relaxes, shifting his attention to Castiel, stroking down his back soothingly and murmuring something that makes him smile as the blue eyes close.  
"Exhausted," Dean tells Crowley, stroking down Castiel's back again, and Castiel shifts into the touch like a cat.  "Had a really long day. Or days, maybe: lost track.  Getting him cleaned up after that was a bitch, but we got it done."
Crowley also thinks he may know how the Pit became paved, and if he's right, he should not be in this room, in the Pit, or for that matter, in Hell itself.  Any question--any hope of a different answer--is denied him when Cas shifts enough for Crowley to see the back of his neck; he doesn't need to read it to know exactly what Dean put there.
Dean looks up and smiles and Crowley is the room with the Master of the Pit and an angel in Hell with full access to the entirety of the Master's power.  The only reason he doesn't run now isn't that it wouldn't matter (he'd still try), but he can't quite get his legs to move.
"Does he know I'm here?"
Dean snorts.  "This early?  He's still under.  Even if I didn't keep him there, wouldn't matter; you're not me, so he doesn't care."
Crowley reminds himself he was invited; if Dean wanted to kill him, apparently his location before now wouldn't have been a problem for him.  "I must remark that the state of the Pit begs to differ on that point."
"Had to go somewhere," Dean says reasonably, looking down at Castiel, who is indeed doing something very much like sleeping, barely a slit of blue visible now.  Crowley can't blame him; from here, he can sense that all of Castiel's energy is turned to reforming in the image Dean wants for him, and Dean's slowed the process to a crawl, assuring every detail is exactly as it should be before moving on.  "Let him up to burn it out: can't argue with the results."  He meets Crowley's eyes.  "I couldn't let him hate me, come on.  I promised him we'd fix that no matter how many times we had to start over."
Crowley nods: no, Dean wouldn't have accepted any failure there whatsoever, no matter how many times he had to do it.  
"Shouldn't have worried," Dean says, almost as if to himself. "First try, he was perfect.  Alistair said they'd always be a disappointment, just deal, but Cas--I knew he wouldn't be."
Crowley nods again; time to get to the heart of this. "How long do I have to prepare?"
"I want the throne," Dean admits.  "Reign and rule, it'll all be in my hand.  Question is, do you need to prepare?"
Crowley stares at him. 
"This is an offer," Dean says.  "And believe it or not, it's open until I march on Crossroads.  I won't do it until I have to, but when I do, I'll win."
"You can't think now--"
"Dude, I could do it before you could snap your fingers," Dean interrupts.  "All I have to do is let Cas come back up and step back."
Crowley doesn't move.
"The Pit's nothing," he continues, green eyes calm.  "That was just to take the edge off and sweetheart, you wouldn't believe what it took to bring him back down.  This time, he starts, he won't stop, and sure, his Brothers might be able to slow him down--though I taught him enough I sincerely doubt it--but no one else is gonna survive."  Crowley stiffens: a low, deep shudder runs through the Pit, somewhere far below bedrock and beneath all of Hell, trembling through his bones.  "Sorry," he murmurs to Cas. "Hypotheticals, promise."
There's a pause, then slowly, reluctantly, the shudder stops.  So this is what it feels like to be shaken: he can't say he ever was curious enough to want to experience it himself.  "You're insane."
"Yeah, but I planned for that," Dean admits chillingly.  "Share and share alike.  It'll be fine, just a little more to go."
Crowley's eyes drift back to Castiel; not quite asleep, not quite aware, not interested at all.  He'd never questioned himself if an angel could be broken on the rack; it was more a matter of what would be left and if it would be of any use.  Castiel, on the other hand, would be immensely useful, but Crowley sincerely doubted if he could break or even know how if he wanted to.  He still very much doubts the first, but the second--if it could be taught, that would be something Dean would do.  So Castiel wouldn't hate him.  And Castiel would want to learn, perhaps for the same reason.
"What are you offering?"  It's not an admission or concession, but it very well might be the start of negotiations.
"Give me a list."  If Crowley doubts Dean's ability (more in hope than anything), he can't Dean's confidence.  "I'm pretty sure we can come to an agreement."
Then Castiel stiffens, and the very fabric of existence starts to bend around them; gripping the rapidly fluctuating chair, Crowley tries to access Crossroads and finds to his own horror it's--not there.  Nothing is anywhere, and--
--it stops.
Blinking slowly, Crowley takes in Dean sitting up with a wide smile, Castiel straddling his lap, one hand on his shoulder and looking vaguely startled.  Crossroads is where it should be, and after confirming that twice, Crowley hesitantly opens his senses and finds--oh.
"Needed more space for the new paving," Dean says, looking up at Castiel.  "Third one this week; you'd think they'd learn."
"You could stop encouraging them by leaving your borders so temptingly unprotected," Crowley says, and Dean gives him an acknowledging grin.  Far more important than fear is the display; it usually takes far longer to gain that level of sensitivity.  "He can feel it?"
"We both can," Dean answers, eyes unfocused. "Other reason I don't have anyone out there; Cas doesn't bother checking for friend or foe and I just can't bring myself to give a fuck." Dean wraps both arms around Castiel's waist and tugs him closer.  "Skip the bullshit, right?"
Castiel looks down, and Crowley watches the slow smile, blue eyes clearing and giving Crowley a searing glimpse of what he'll be when Dean is done with him.  "I can hear them screaming."
"Awesome, right?  Told you." Dean relaxes back into the cushions.  "Back down now, need your rest."
Castiel hesitates, and this time, Crowley's not surprised at the lack of discipline; watching Castiel finally settle back down beneath the slow, soothing strokes, he wonders if there's ever been a single Master who could use the carrot so well the stick was simply the lack of it.  Start as you mean to go on and Dean's started very well indeed.
Far, far too well. "I'll need to think about it," he says finally.
"Invitation's always open," Dean tells him absently, threading his fingers through Cas's hair and Cas lifts his head.  "When you use it though, come alone: admit one only."
He nods, rising to his feet, but pauses as Castiel brushes a kiss against Dean's lips, and sees the flicker in the blue eyes. The couch widens obligingly, and in a single sensual shift, Castiel eases himself back onto it, drawing Dean down to him with nothing more than a smile.  
Licking his lower lip, Castiel says, "Please," and before Crowley's fascinated eyes, the Master of the Pit forgets anyone and anything not the angel stretched out beneath him so obligingly.
Start as you mean to go on, Crowley thinks as he leaves the Black Mountain: Castiel, too, has started very well indeed.
@@@@@@
The door opens at a touch, and from the back, she can see the hesitation before the others go inside.  Stupid: if he didn't want them to enter, the door wouldn't open; if they weren't allowed here, they would never be able to enter.  Alistair doesn't play games like that, doesn't need to; stupidity generally does all the work for him.
She hears someone's breath catch, everyone freezing, and without thinking, she drifts closer to the group and stops short at the sight of the bed.  Through thin, gauzy curtains, she sees Castiel stretched out on blood-stained sheets, Alistair hovering over him.  Lazily, Castiel slides a leg over Alistair's shoulder and arches, and the soft, hungry sounds are lost beneath a low, reverberating moan she can feel down to what passes as her feet these days.
So maybe she was wrong about that.
Sitting back on his heels, Alistair shoves the curtains back, licking blood-smeared lips and grinning at them.  She hears one of the others make a retching sound and glances over to see the rack just opposite the bed.  She can't tell who was on it, but it's easy to guess; Alistair apparently was taking further atonement from Castiel's past sins, and Castiel likes to watch.
Alistair follows their gaze and his grin widens.  "Gonna need more," he says pleasantly.  "You volunteering?"
It's addressed to them all, and she has to admit a reluctant respect when their leader steps forward.
"Master," she says.  "They're here."
"Yeah, I know."  He turns his attention back to Castiel, hooking his fingers behind Castiel's knees and pulling him down the bed.  Sliding his hands down the length of his thighs from knee to hip, Castiel arches with a moan as bloody sigils come alight across his skin.  "I'm the Pit, sweetheart; I know everything that happens here."
Maybe she's the only one that hears the implied warning; despite their power, Alistair's lieutenants have surprising blind spots.
Castiel lazily pushes himself upright, and with the curtains pushed back, not much of the long, lithe body is hidden.  Even with the implied invitation of drawn curtains, she knows she should look away (Alistair brooks no rivals, even those only imagined), but she can't quite.
In the Pit, they never see Castiel as anything but flawless, ineffable, beautiful, terrifying, inhuman: an angel remade in the Master's own image who uses the rack like Hell's never dreamed.  Even here, Alistair is an artist; she traces the elegant lines of the sigils carved over Castiel's shoulders and down his back with her eyes, the fingertip bruises dotting his hips and thighs, the bloody outline of teeth and scrape of fingernails and rope burns around his wrists, none of it yet unmade.  Tipping his head up, Castiel smiles slowly, focused on Alistair like they aren't even here, and for him, maybe they're not.  Right now, she's not sure they exist for Alistair at all beyond a momentary inconvenience.  And Alistair doesn't like inconvenience.
"Tell me you got a better reason than that to interrupt," Alistair continues, watching Castiel with a little smile.  "Kind of busy at the moment."
"They're looking for you."
"No other reason for angels to be in the Pit."  In theory, she knows they go wherever they want; in fact, they rarely leave their compounds, near-impenetrable structures built at almost the beginning of time.
(Near-impenetrable: it surprised her to discover even angels have lapses.)
As far as she knows, before Alistair's Ascension, they hadn't toured the Pit itself in millennia.  She's not sure if it's simply distaste at the presence of so much (former) humanity or offense to their so-delicate angelic sensibilities.  Since then, however, it's a regular feature, and it's not like she can't guess the reason, and only half of it is Alistair himself.
Sitting back on his heels, Alistair pulls Castiel into his lap and tugs him down for a hungry kiss while reaching for his knife and making a cut across his shoulder.  Castiel leans down at the first well of blood, and Alistair's eyes close, breath catching audibly in the quiet room.
"There we go," he croons, mouthing a kiss just behind Castiel's ear. "Just like that."
"They'll expect you--" the leader starts.
"They want me on my knees, they can summon me and make it happen themselves," he interrupts, tipping his head back.  "That it?"
No one answers, and she swallows; this is why she came.  Taking a deep breath, she pushes her way to the front.  "Master, they're looking for Castiel as well."
Alistair stiffens, hand freezing in Castiel's hair, and the full power of green eyes slam into her.  She sucks in a breath, rocked, but keeps her feet; it's not much, but it's more than she would have thought she could do.  For a moment, she gets an impression of--surprise? Satisfaction?--but it's gone in a breath.  "Where are they now?"
Almost as if in answer, Castiel stiffens, visibly shuddering, and Alistair tightens his arm possessively, looking at the rack across the room. It exists everywhere, of course, but until now, she didn't realize that meant wherever they were could be seen; it's never showed her anywhere but where she was with it.  Barely breathing, she watches the angels survey the Pit and then the rack, their revulsion obvious, before they turn their attention to those on display: Castiel's latest works.  Faintly, she hears Alistair murmuring to Castiel, words indistinguishable but tone soothing as he watches as well.
"Master," someone behind her says, a mistake; you don't interrupt Alistair if you don't have to.  From the corner of her eye, she notes none of them are looking at the rack, don't even seem to notice, as if--as if they can't see what she can.  "If they can't find him--"
"They can't unless they actually see him," Alistair interrupts.  "They can't tell the difference between us anymore, not in the Pit." Stroking Castiel's hair back, he murmurs something and Castiel nods dreamily as Alistair guides him back to the cut, licking along the wound hungrily to catch all the escaped blood, and Alistair sucks in a sharp breath.  "They asking for him by name?"
"What, Whore of the Pit?" a voice mutters and something inside her snaps.  
Before she can think, she manifests her knife, turns, and buries it in their gut.  Grabbing a handful of hair, she jerks them close enough to breathe their last breath.  "You don't call him that." 
As their mouth falls opens, she spits in their face then twists the blade until it grates on bone and jerks downward in a long arc, gutting them before finishing a castration that finally makes them scream. Jerking her blade back out, she watches them fall, their agony washing through her in sensuous waves.  All this time, the grinding misery of helping to break souls was only that; this, though, this is pleasure.  She wants to do it again, now.
"I've been waiting forever for that," she breathes.  She's gonna spend millennia on a chain for touching one of Alistair's lieutenants, but she doesn't care; it was worth it.  Raising the blade to her lips, she licks it clean, enjoying their shock and rage while she can as she takes their power; it's not much, but it's more than she's gotten from anyone since she got off the rack.  "Anyone else?"
They're thinking about it; she hopes they try.  A hundred, a thousand millennia chained up, she'll take it and more laughing if it means this time, she doesn't have to hide, to wait, to pray, to hope; this time, they come for her, she can fight back; this time, she can protect herself; this time, she'll take them all with her.
"You--" their leader says, her knife drawn and advancing.  "You're nothing.  You're gonna be less than that when I’m done--"
"Fuck yourself," she breathes, feeling the taken power course over her like heat; it burns, but she likes it, wants more of that, too.  "You want me?  Come and get me."
"Stand the fuck down."
She drops to her knees with the others, forehead scraping against the stone floor, and abruptly, the body vanishes; the screaming takes a little longer.  As the silence stretches, she warily looks up and sees a pile of dust in Alistair's upraised palm.  He closes his hand around it; when he opens it again, it's empty.  "Figure they need a tour of the Pit," he says, like he's talking to himself.  "Few thousand years, I'll check in, see what they learned."
She licks her lips and waits for her turn.
"Lucky Cas wasn't paying attention or they'd have to deal with disembodied laughter the whole time," he remarks to his silent audience, tipping his head back with a sigh before focusing on her again.  "Might add that later.  Everyone up, I'm getting a crick in my neck. Well?"
It takes her a moment to work out she's not dust in the Pit, but she doesn't forget he asked her a question.  "Not yet, Master," she says, climbing clumsily to her feet.  "They--uh, they called him the 'Consort of the Master of the Pit'."
"You're fucking with me."  Nosing the dark hair above Castiel's ear, he breathes something and Castiel pulls back, eyebrows raised. "Consort of the Master of the Pit, what do you think?"
Licking one last time, Castiel seals the cut with a brush of his lips before straightening.  "No one ever accused my Brothers of excessive imagination." The cold eyes flicker over their audience and then settle on her, and she finds herself bending again by reflex.  Castiel is the one who broke her, but she doesn't expect him to remember her; he broke thousands of souls on the rack during his apprenticeship and more since, and she was only one of many.
The room abruptly shudders around them, warping.  She grabs for the doorway, hearing the others groaning, rolling onto the floor (ceiling), and tries to work out what's going on.
"What--" someone whimpers.
"Shut up," Alistair snaps.  "Cas?"
"They're partially occupying the same discrete area of space we're in," he answers distractedly.  "It's--odd.  It will pass."
"I'll take your word for it."  Slowly, nauseatingly, the shifting slows to a stop. "And they're gone.  What the fuck--" She glances up and sees Castiel frowning, blue eyes distant.  "Cas? What?"
"I'm not sure." The blue eyes focus on them, pausing on her for a shaking moment before focusing behind her.   "They concealed something outside the Pit; find out what and return within the hour."
"Yes, Master," they breathe, and she fondly hopes they choke on having to say it. As they leave, she notices their leader is staring at the blue stones lining the walls  It takes her a moment too long to work out why; those aren't stones.
"Are those..." The leader's voice cuts off, and Alistair looks his interest. "Its eyes?"
"Decorating idea," he says, looking at Castiel.  "Forgot to ask. You like it?"
"I love it," Castiel breathes against his lips.  "You spoil me."
"So it has to watch," she murmurs, appreciating the thought, then freezes as Alistair focuses on her, wondering what the hell is wrong with her. "Forgive me, Master--"
"I'll think about it," he says, which means 'no'.  "I almost forgot: did I order you to come here today?"
"No, Master."
"That," Alistair says, raising a hand and looking bored, "was not worth what you're about to--"
"It was worth it," she blurts out.  "I'd do it again, Master."
Alistair lowers his hand.  "Get out," he says to the others, focusing on her.  "Let's talk, sweetheart."
She freezes in place, feeling the satisfaction radiating from the others as they leave and hears the doors close with the same finality the last restraint was attached when she was placed on the rack.  She can feel his eyes on her, pushing inside her head, and fights not to flinch.
"Huh," he says, sliding off the bed, jeans and a t-shirt materializing as he paces to the rack, looking over the (multiple) remains; it was a three chain kind of evening.  "You were one of the last holdouts from that group.  I had to send Cas, and gotta tell you, who had you wasn't that bad."  His lips curve in faint approval.  "Pissed her off so much, it was great.  She was so sure she could do it."
She nods shortly; that would be Alistair's favorite lieutenant, and yeah, she's still pissed about that, in case anyone was wondering.
"Wrong tool for the job, as it turns out, almost fucked up everything," he adds, waving a hand, and the remains vanish back to their chains to be forgotten (for a while).  "My bad, you just never know."
She remembers when Castiel took over just like she remembers every second of those years, but those last five are branded into her like nothing else.  They used to (know each other?), but since she rose, everything before the rack is a gaping hole she feels every second of every goddamn day.  There are something like memories, flicking into and out of her mind in painful bursts (sunlight, a woman's bright laughter, warmth, rest) but they vanish before she can grasp them. They hurt, but they hurt even more to lose, even if she can't quite remember what it is she lost, even a name.
As she waits for Alistair's judgement, she finds herself looking at those blue ornaments.  It's gotta burn a little when the first angel ever broken on the rack of Hell realizes their current place in the universe.  The angels hate Castiel; it's a degradation, what he does with Alistair, and she's not even sure if they find the sex more offensive than the fact Castiel sits with Alistair on the throne of the Pit.  
Unlike Castiel, the angel Alistair broke fell apart, nothing left to even know how to fight. She stares at those blue jewels, unable to stop herself from smiling.  Alistair's work is always fascinating in its sheer brutal refinement (there's a reason he scares Hell itself), but as it turns out they still aren't afraid enough.  She glances around, marking the locations, carefully set at regular intervals around the room, not just the bed.  This wasn't the Master of the Pit exercising his expertise in designing the perfect eternal torture; that was just an accident (he can do something like this by accident).  Alistair spent a ridiculous amount of time, effort, and minions to reshape an angel of Hell on the rack into a toy to entertain Castiel when he's bored.
"Before we get down to business," Alistair says pleasantly, sitting on the bed, and it takes everything in her not to look at the rack (soon enough when she's on it again for Alistair's next round of foreplay), "want to tell me why you're here without a direct order?"
She swallows; he wouldn't believe the truth.  She barely believes it herself.  "Only way to move up is your favor, Master," she answers, which has the benefit of being true.  "I'm meat for half the Pit and get all the shit jobs, and I’m tired of it.  I saw an opportunity and I took it."
"It's Hell," Alistair says as Castiel lazily stretches out, resting his head in Alistair's lap like an exotic, pampered pet.  "It's not actually supposed to be awesome." Castiel makes a dissenting sound, and Alistair looks down fondly, stroking through the dark hair. "Awesome for anyone but us," he corrects himself.  "I'd almost buy that--I mean, I'd pretend I didn't because then I'd miss your screaming, but I would--but it'd be a lot easier and less stupid to get in with my lieutenants and considering how they feel about you, that's saying something.  Though after today…."
Yeah, she kind of figured, thanks.
"For future reference, you missed two nerve centers that would have made your extempore disembowelment and castration even more excruciating," Castiel tells her.  "I taught you better than that."
"I didn't think--" She cuts herself off, wondering at the hot feeling in her face, like somehow, she can still flush.  She can bleed--fuck, can she bleed, that never stops--and be dismembered and vivisected and hung in pieces, but somehow, it never occurred to her she can still fucking flush.  "I'm out of practice, Master.  The rack doesn't offer much challenge."  Overseeing the rack is grueling, miserable work, and more than once, she's envied her victims.  Their pain is always a surprise to them in endless variety (they certainly carry on like she's a master sadist beyond compare, which shows how limited their experiences really are); her pain is constant, mundane, and never, ever changes, not once since she rose and Castiel left her as meat for the Pit.
"That," Castiel answers, "is not an excuse."
"Can she answer my question now?" Alistair asks, and Castiel rolls his eyes and nods.  "Thanks."
"Warning you about a danger to Castiel might elicit favorable treatment, Master," she says quickly. "It was worth the risk."
"I didn't think they could hate you more," Alistair muses. "I was wrong there. You get how very fucked you are when you leave the Tower, right?" He smiles at her, chilling her to the bone. "Not saying what they'll do to you is worse than what I can, but come on; at least I'd eventually get bored.  Until now, they left you intact enough to do your job."
"They have a very flexible version of 'intact enough', Master." After today, assuming Alistair lets her go (a big if) she can say goodbye to ever being intact enough to do anything again.  She knew the risk, prepared for it, but--yeah.
"Yeah, if right now is any example," he adds, looking her over critically, and she knows what state she's in, thanks.  "You really do get all the shit jobs, don't you?  You don't get anything and they cost you in the bargain."
Some part of her wants to observe he's a goddamn master of the obvious as well as the Pit, but she's not that stupid (usually).  "Yes, Master."
"Did you tell them about the angels asking about Castiel?"
"No," she answers.  "They already have your favor, so why should I give them this?"
Alistair's fingers skim down Castiel's cheek.  "Lie to me one more time, and my curiosity is gonna lose to boredom.  Just cleaned the rack, too."
"I wasn't sure they'd believe me or tell you or think it was important enough," she says in a rush, giving up.  "I couldn't risk--Master, they weren't here for you at all, that was just an excuse.  They were here for Castiel."
The room seems to drop a hundred degrees--or maybe rise, she's not sure--before Alistair says, "You think."
"I know, Master," she answers.  "I wouldn't take this risk for a guess."
"How do you know?"
"I--I was--" She licks dry, cracked lips, tasting char.  "I watched them."
"Today?"
"Every time they come to the Pit. I followed them from the moment they passed the borders until I came here."  Alistair stills.  "They never notice us, Master, but this time, they did. They were--looking at us.  Not at everyone, just--"
"Cas's work." 
"No--I mean, maybe that, too, but they..." She swallows again.  "Everyone Cas broke on the rack."  Belatedly, she hears what she just called Castiel: Cas.
"Son of a bitch--"  Alistair's eyes grow distant, and she sees Castiel has the same expression. "Got it. Cas?"
"So that's what they were doing," Castiel says in interest. "I'm calling those idiots back; in this case, their incompetence isn't the reason for their failure."
"Good thing we didn't send someone you broke," Alistair answers, and Castiel tips his head back to frown.  Alistair's eyes flicker to her and he smiles. "You just might want to brace yourself; it's gonna be rough. But fun."
She drops to her knees, waiting for whatever happens next; she always knew this was how it would go.
What happens next is a stillness, then a sense of something on the very edge of her awareness, like seeing something from the corner of her eye.  Burying her head in her arms, she's just in time for the vertigo turns everything into nothing.  She can't see or hear or even think, a hot burn like bathing in acid and a cold rage so profound it dissolves everything it touches; then she can, and she must have opened her eyes, because she's staring down into forever and can't stop screaming.
She's not sure how long it lasts (forever) but then it's over, and shaking, she checks to see how much of her is still left and estimate how much it's going to take out of her to put herself together again.  There's a reason she's prey for half the fucking Pit; she's not strong enough to be anything else and can't--won't--buy it with the only thing she has to trade.  She gave her submission to Castiel when she rose from the rack and to Alistair before the entire Pit, and they're the only ones she ever will.  There might not be much of her left--whatever she was, if she was anything at all (nothing)--but that much, she won't give up.
Warily, she pushes herself up and back onto her heels, startled that she's still (relatively) unscathed, or at least, as much as she was before.  Looking at the bed, she sees Alistair and Castiel watching her in amusement and just stops herself from asking what just happened.
Alistair grins at her. "I'll tell you anyway.  They left something outside the Pit, and now I know why.  They were trying to use those Cas broke to find him. Contamination: you really can't get away from it."
"They were using us?  How?"
Alistair raises his eyebrows. "You can tell who Cas broke?"
"Yes, Master," she answers in surprise, wondering at Alistair's look of satisfaction.  "We all can."
"Like calls to like," he says cryptically.  "Cas's Brothers marked all of you when they were here.  Outside the Pit, they got someone very stupid to act as trigger--and I'm gonna have some fun with them--and burn you all out at once."
She stills.  "Burn us out?"
"They can't find Cas."  She glances down to see Castiel lying very still beneath Alistair's hands, and after a second, she sees Alistair's knuckles are white.  "In the Pit, they can't tell the difference between us. But he loses all of you at once like that...."
"I wouldn't have--" Castiel says softly.
"Dude, you wouldn't be able to help yourself," he says roughly.  "Not if you wanted to remake them before--fuck.  And you'd be right out in the middle of the Pit and once they saw you...."
"What?" she whispers.
"I'm rather curious about that as well," Castiel says, tugging the hand Alistair has clamped around his hip and pulling it to his lips.  "Not enough to test it, of course, but we'll know more when you're done with Trigger. I want to watch."
"I want to watch," she says without thinking.  The stillness eases, and Alistair looks at her curiously.  "Master, I--the information I brought you stopped this."
"This is the favor you want?" Alistair asks blankly.  "Wait, I thought you wanted a better job or...." He sits back and grins.  "That was the lie I couldn't find; good job, you hid that one really well."
"Master, I--"
"We'll come back to that," he says.  "You just want to watch?"
No: she wants to hurt them.  It's been years, but she remembers those first lessons before Castiel left, and she remembers everything Castiel did to her. If she can't reproduce it all yet, she'll take all the time she needs to learn on them.  She can almost hear their screaming; they'll forget how to even beg before she's done.
"There we go," Alistair murmurs.  "Hold that thought.  Cas, I burned that shit Trigger did out of all of them: check 'em for me.  I miss anything?"
"No," Castiel answers, the distant look back.  "I sent them into the inner Pit to recover.  If your lieutenants come near them before I release them, they'll make very admirable compost after a sufficient amount of time being digested by Fido and Spot."
Alistair bursts into laughter, falling back on the bed, startling her almost as much as Castiel's words.
"The final act will be planting a garden," Castiel adds dreamily, and Alistair wheezes.  "Turnips and cabbage, perhaps."
Sitting up, Alistair tugs Castiel into a kiss, and she forces herself to stare at the floor.  "How many acts?"
"Ten," Castiel says in a different voice--oh, please don't let them forget she's here until it's too late.  "Digestion alone will take two: Fido and Spot will each like starring in their own act."
"You're fucking amazing," Alistair says, laughter in his voice. "I love it.  You can have Trigger when I'm done for the rough draft, how's that sound?"
"I serve your pleasure alone, Master," Castiel says in a low voice, and she doesn't need to look up to know Alistair just forgot she (and pretty much anything not Castiel) exists.  Then, "You can look up now."
It takes her a moment to realize he's talking to her.  Warily, she straightens.
"In any case, the immediate threat is eliminated," Castiel continues.  "It will be relatively simple to assure they can't try that again."
"Honestly, I'm surprised they even thought of it," Alistair says.  "When is the last time they had an idea--any idea--that didn't start with 'declare war' followed by 'stabbing anything in sight'?"
"I doubt they did and I'd be very interested in finding out who gave them the idea," Castiel answers, cold blue eyes gazing into Alistair's.  "Trigger is doubtless not the only one my Brothers suborned.  It seems the Pit requires a reminder of the penalty of denying your will; I'll begin the purge at dawn."
Despite herself, she stills; maybe she should hope Alistair decides to punish her himself after all.
"Awesome," Alistair murmurs, leaning in for a quick kiss.  "Any luck, it'll be a while before your Brothers' next visit.  Especially occupying the same space shit: how the hell they missed that…."
"They didn't," Castiel answers, leaning against Alistair's shoulder.  "They were focused on finding me, however, so they simply didn't care.  I must applaud such breathtaking lack of common sense; it would be a bother for them to realize that among the many things they missed here is the Tower."
That rocks her enough to blurt out, "How can they miss it?  It's in the middle of the Pit!"  Suddenly, she's the focus of two sets of amused eyes.  "Master."
"They can't see it," Alistair answers, fingertips skimming down Castiel's bare back. All the earlier marks are gone now; even the blood is undone, perfection restored.
"Because they're angels?" She catches herself. "Master, forgive me--"
"It's fine.  And yeah, but that's not the only reason."  Alistair grins at her.  "No one can see it unless me or Cas let them."
That startles her more than the fact angels couldn't see it.  "But I…" she trails off under the focus of two sets of eyes.
"How long?"
"Always."  Since she came off the rack, it stood in the distance, watchful; no matter where she is or where she goes, she can always feel it (waiting).  "After I rose--" (After Castiel left her alone.) "--it was just...there."
"Huh." Alistair glances at Castiel.  "What else?  Come on, not a trick question; if I wanted to discipline you, I got all I need for that.  Or for fun, so just say it."
"I don't know, Master," she whispers.  "Sometimes--I thought it was--it felt like I was supposed to come here."
"Interesting." She wonders sickly what the penalty for that is.  "Sometimes?"
"More every day." 
"Sounds about right," he says unexpectedly.  "When Cas had you, did he tell you that you were his first after his apprenticeship?"
She opens her mouth, but the answer won't clear her mouth, tangled up with the blackened remains of her tongue.
"I'll take that as a 'no'.  Something else you didn't know," Alistair says to her.  "Sometimes, souls don't break.  Actually, it's more 'can't'."
She nods, trying to follow, but she can't stop thinking about that; she was Castiel's first.  It doesn't matter--it shouldn't matter--but it does.
"Alistair--the other one--thought it was funny," Alistair continues.  "Before I broke, he showed them to me.  Had no idea what I was looking at; they screamed and cried, whatever, right?  He left me there for three weeks, didn't tell me what they were; when he got back, I begged to leave."
That gets her attention.  "Why?"
"That's all they did," he says.  "No matter what anyone did to them.  Even if no one was doing anything at all.  Three weeks of that shit really changes your perspective."
"They...why?"
"Fucker wouldn't tell me," Alistair answers.  "You fight, you forget why you need to, then you get up; that's how it works.  The rack can't fail, and I mean that literally; that's how it was designed from the first.  Still with me?"
She nods, then shakes her head. "But--"
"The rack can't fail," he repeats. "That doesn't mean it always succeeds; that's a totally different thing.   No one knew that, though, until they started putting humans on it."
"Who--"
"Angels," Castiel says, eyes half-open, but something his voice freezes her in place.  "It was purpose-created to discipline angels.  You must understand; angels have no concept of 'choice'. When we were placed upon it, we did not fight and we did not leave, not until it was done and all it was ordered to take from us was gone.  Sometimes, that was everything."
She swallows, trying to imagine that.  Everything.  "It works differently on us."
"That's one way to put it," Alistair says, and Castiel gives her a sleepy smile.  "A human soul can hold out forever, don't get me wrong; it's possible.  Benefits of free will: we can say 'no', and the rack can't take a fucking thing.  So we fight until we forget what we're fighting for, and when we give it what it wants, we can get up; that's how it works.  Except sometimes--that happens.  They're still there because they haven't given the rack what it wants; the problem is, there's nothing for it to take."
Her breath catches.  "Nothing there."
"Pretty much," Alistair answers.  "Alistair, he had no fucking clue what was going on, no surprise, but we figured it out eventually.  Some people don't just forget why they're fighting, sweetheart; they forget everything, including themselves.   Talk about creating your own Hell…."
She tries to imagine that, but sheer horror freezes her mind; she thinks she might be grateful.
"Putting someone together after that…." He shakes his head.  "Like a needle in a haystack, except you don't know how many needles you're looking for and the haystacks are also needles."  Cas makes a vague affirmative sound.  "But way more boring."
"You brought someone back from that, Master?"
"One," Alistair answers, meeting her eyes.  "That's how we found what was going on. Had to do some serious reconstruction, and by the way, you're welcome."
"Me."  That sense of nothingness before Castiel. She'd thought she imagined it. "I was…." She can't make herself say it.
"You're fine now ," Alistair assures her, looking down at Castiel fondly.  "I only put you together, though; that was the easy part.  Cas was the one who figured it out and who had to make sure you'd stay that way."
"It's possible we could have easily reversed it before it became--complicated--but when she realized what happened to you, she neglected to inform us there was a problem."
"Yeah, and she paid for that," Alistair says soothingly, then he smiles at her.  "Probably thought you were fucking with her.  It was something you did.  You two gave the Pit the best show we've had in millennia, sweetheart.  Pissed her off so much; should have guessed something went wrong when she shut down the audience, but I figured she was tired of being humiliated."
Castiel tips his head back to smile up at Alistair.  "It was the best part of my day."
She nods blankly.
"Thing is, she was the wrong tool," Alistair says.  "Cas formally requested permission to take over before the entire goddamn pit--there was supplication, a speech, all the bells and whistles, it was unreal. Made me sit through sixteen fucking days of that shit and as is turns out, he had enough material to keep me stuck there for a couple of centuries."
"A formal supplication is a contract," Castiel recites, and to her shock, Alistair closes his eyes, looking pained. "A Master doesn't ever have to accept a request for supplication, but if they do, they are required to listen until the time limit negotiated before the formal supplication begins is reached; in the absence of a negotiated time limit, of course, the limit is subject to the supplication's discretion.  I didn't realize you were unaware of that before we began or I would have explained." He pauses, smiling faintly.  "I did apologize with sufficient prostration, I think."
"Yeah, that part was awesome, definitely worth it," Alistair concedes, then shakes himself.  "Fine, I said no when you asked, that's on me.  I knew better than to expect to exercise my actual literal right to your obedience wouldn't bite me in the ass, my bad."  He turns his attention back to her.  "That's not why I said yes, though; he was right.  He was the right tool, and he was my apprentice; if anyone could do it, it was him."
"How could I fail?" Castiel murmurs, trailing his fingers down Alistair's face. "You made me."
Alistair smiles, catching Castiel's hand and brushing a kiss against the palm before looking at her again. "You hated each other, your first," he says, laughing at her expression.  "Trust me, you did.  Usually, that would be perfect, make it easy--and believe it or not, it was supposed to be easy.  Instead, hit the one in a million; you hated her more than anything and I mean anything.  Nothing she could do was going to get you to give up; just knowing she wanted it meant you wouldn't do it.  And twenty-one years of that, she hit something in you and you noped the fuck out.  She thought it was spite at first," he adds.  "And I guess, yeah, it kind of was."
She nods numbly; thirty years of--nothing.  She really was nothing.
"It took Cas two years to get you back and five to finish," Alistair continues. "We had to be sure that what you had to leave on the rack would be all you lost; you'd keep the rest."
"I don't understand."
"When you break, in the end, it's because you want to--and you didn't know how to want anything.  Someone had to make you want it, and Cas could do that.  If you wouldn't break for yourself, you'd do it for him."
"A different tool." A faint not-memory drifting through her mind like ash, crumbling at a touch, but that's enough. She looks at Castiel.  "We--we were friends. Before--here."
"Yes," he answers.  "We were."
She tries to think, but a strange emptiness seems to crowd out words.
"The thing is," Alistair says, "we always hate the person that breaks us.  When Cas said he wanted to do it, I didn't want to let him, but--anyway.  Figured we'd worry about that later, except today--I knew you were lying, but it didn't occur to me you would lie to yourself.  Why did you come here today?  Don't try the favor shit: we both know you don't give a good shit about getting my favor. So why?"
This time, she doesn't stop and think. "I had to be sure you knew they were looking for him," she whispers.  "So you could protect him. I didn't tell them because I couldn't be sure unless I did it myself.  I had to be sure, Master."
Alistair regards her thoughtfully, then motions. "Come here."
Of their own accord, her legs unfold beneath her, pushing her up and her feet carry her to that huge, terrible bed.  She wants to beg for mercy, but there's no mercy in Hell; there's just pain and anger and loss and fear and she's saturated with them all.  He raises a hand, and she shuts her eyes, waiting for the pain.
Instead, a feather light touch traces down her face, over charred skin and broken bone, pressing against burnt, tender muscles and raw nerves.  It doesn't hurt, and that scares her as much as anything else.
"Any reason you're not fixing yourself up a little more?" Alistair asks, pausing at the remains of her lips.  In Hell, you can take any shape you want, but you have to have power to do it.  Fifty years, and she still can't manage to do any better than the shape she left the rack wearing, the last of Castiel's work worn as her skin; keeping this much takes everything's she's got and she usually doesn't even get to this before she's out.  She's never minded as much as she should have, and now she knows why; they were friends. "They don't give you anything, do you?"
She shakes her head, the ragged, charred remains of her hair scraping against her cheek.  "No.  I only keep enough for--for this much."
"It's always like this," he says in a different voice.  "At first, anyway.  That's how it works here for everyone.  The strongest use the weakest.  You're the only one who can decide if it's also always, and that takes time."
Warily, she opens her eyes.  "Master?"
"What you gave up, you can't get back," he says.  "So you gotta make yourself again.  Half the time, they never do.  Meat for the Pit: that's all they are and will ever be.  That's what you want?"
She shudders; she's seen them, and if there was ever motivation not to give up, they were it.  Barely there, barely anything at all: Hell is a paradise entire compared to being that.  She may not be anything or anyone now, but she was, and somehow, she will be again.
Alistair laughs. "Yeah, that's what I thought.  So gotta know; why are you meat now?"
"I don't have power, Master" she answers.  "They won't give me any--"
"You take power, just like they do, and you have the other half the Pit to get it from."  She stills, and Alistair cocks his head.  "Now that's interesting.  Not meat: a lure."
"Master--"
"Cas, help me out; I haven't been watching her like you have."
Startled, she looks between them.
"I thought you wanted to be surprised," he answers lazily, mouth quirking.  "Six months after she rose, she realized your lieutenants hated her specifically and it gave her an idea."
She feels the skim of blue eyes like a touch.  
"Show me," Alistair says, and the green eyes unfocus. Then he starts to smile before he bursts into laughter.  "Fuck me, talk about history repeating: not bad.  A lure.  When you worked out how much they hated you, you used yourself as a distraction for others.  Take their punishment yourself; fuck knows they were willing to oblige you.  What do you get out of it, though?  I get the loyalty--trust me, sweetheart, that part is not a surprise--but what did you have them do?  Not power--not that they had any--"
"They were her informants," Castiel answers, and she shivers as Alistair's thumb slides down her ruined cheek.  "She knows when angels enter the Pit, where I am--apparently almost as well as you do--and exactly when your lieutenants report, not to mention anything that might be of potential interest.  She probably knows as much about what happens in the Pit--at least outside the tower--as we do, if not more.  In return, she makes sure that if your lieutenants want a toy, it's her."
"And you still think its worth it." Alistair shakes his head, eyes distant.  "Sweetheart, they're doing shit to you I have to be in a really bad mood to do, for fun, and you go to them willing?  I get why you made the deal, but you get we're in Hell, right?  You could have made terms that weren't unconditional surrender."
"Those weren't their terms, Master," she answers.  "They were mine."
"Why?"
"To make a point," Castiel says softly, and she swallows hard.  "It took time, but they did eventually understand, didn't they?"
Alistair tips his head, waiting.
"I was broken by Castiel on the rack of Hell," she answers, forcing herself to meet his eyes. "Why should I need to make terms, Master?  There's nothing they can do to me that compares to him."
Alistair searches her face, then starts to smile.  "Yeah," he says, almost to himself, and abruptly, she can feel him in her mind, her existence here reviewed in a breath. "Okay, lets get this shit done.   Kneel."
She drops immediately; she always knew this was going to happen.  She has just enough time to feel a single moment of overwhelming terror before Alistair's hand closes over her throat, choking off air (how why does she need it here?). "Time to level the fuck up."
Suddenly, agony courses through her; all those years on the rack and everything since, that was like a fucking picnic; she can't even scream.
"So, last to break, first to arrive," Alistair says.  "Thirty years you fucked off, but you came back and you were the first there, too.  If there were rules here, you'd have broken them all, so why not this one, too?  Listen to me, sweetheart: this is a test, and you will not fail."
She tries to remain passive, obedient, he's her Master and he has the right and she has none at all, but she can't help grabbing for his wrist.
"You think you know pain, but it's been it's been almost a century of lessons and you still don't get it.  Gotta give you credit; that takes effort and you went above and beyond not to learn.  Twenty-one years with my best lieutenant didn't even scratch you; five with Cas did, but pain didn't break you; you did it for him," Alistair says.  "Fifty years of my lieutenants taking you apart aren't even touching you; sweetheart, I bet you could hold out forever if left to yourself.  I'm not them, though, and I'm tired of waiting.  This is the lesson you should have learned on the rack and over the last fifty years; since you didn't, you're gonna learn it now.
"Everything you ever felt before, those were practice; this is the real thing."
Like that, it changes, and he's right; it's like she dreamed a vague dream of a toothache and woke to being burned alive and crushed for eternity.
"Pain's pain, always; you fight it until you give up, you live inside it and learn the first and only lesson; how to accept it," she hears Alistair say.  "You broke on the rack, but you're still fighting like the moment I first strapped you down.  That was then and this is now, but nothing's changed. Here's my question: why?"
For a second, she pauses; why? Why what?
"Hell is pain, that's all it is; a human soul can't handle it, that's why we're sent here to suffer and rot," Alistair says.  "They put us on the rack and take us apart, and we can stop it, sure, but what we leave on the rack is ourselves and we lose it forever.  That's the deal, right?  Sounds shitty, but here's the thing; it's a lie.  We don't lose a fucking thing; we choose to leave it there.  What we take with us is only what we need.  They say there's no mercy in Hell; that's a lie, too, here's the truth.  The rack is mercy; it's what shows us exactly what we need to keep.  I broke an angel of Hell on the rack and they're still on it; they can't get up even now, they can't take it.  A human, though; we can take anything.
"Some don't get that," she hears over the roar in her ears.  "Sit around, mourning something they can't even remember.  That's a choice, and they made the wrong one.  They're no one, they're nothing, they're fodder, they're food." She scrabbles at his hands, seeing her own begin to char, bare finger bones blackening as they turn into ash.  "It's just pain; you can't fight it and why would you want to?  Use it."
She shakes her head as agony courses through her.  
"This is Hell and Hell is pain and what we take with us when we leave the rack is this; we like it."
She stills; for a second, there's--"
"We love it," Alistair says  "We want it.  We give it, we get it, it's all the same thing, but you don't know that because you're still stuck fighting it.  Today, you almost got it; how it felt to bury your knife in his gut and make him scream; you liked it.  You should love it."
The memory of the sensuous, hungry pleasure of it flashes through her; accept it.  
"Almost there," Alistair whispers.  "What you left on the rack you can't get back; you don't want it.  Everything you need here you brought with you, but you can't use it until you learn the first lesson; you don't fight your pain, you accept it."
Accept it; she stops struggling, trying to pull away, everything she'd done on the rack until fighting was all she knew, mindless, reflexive, endless.  She's still fighting a war she already lost, and she wonders now why.
She stops fighting.
Forever, there's nothing but her own agony, nothing--no, there's not nothing.  A bolt rips her apart, she can feel that, it's hers, and giving that up means there's nothing, she's nothing, no.  Desperately, she clings to it, grasping for more, as much as she can get; she's not nothing.  She imagines Alistair's lieutenants on the rack beneath her hand, how she'd teach them new ways to scream; she breathes their screams and tastes their blood and fear and loves it.  She wants it.
Dimly, like a dream: she remembers those last days (hours, years) on the rack beneath Castiel and the pleasure rippling through every agonized scream.
"There we go."
She comes to herself on the floor, gasping, shaking so hard she barely avoids knocking her head into the stone.  
"Beautiful," she hears and looks up to see Castiel watching her.  "I knew you could do it."
Shoving herself back on her knees, she starts to take stock--no idea how she'll fix this--when it occurs to her something's different.  She blinks slowly at the sight of her own thighs, whole and complete beneath ragged jeans and tears open the rents to see smooth, dark skin, untouched.  Her hands--long, perfect fingers, nails perfect ovals, up to slim arms, all flawless.  Desperately, she feels over her chest through her worn t-shirt, the full, soft curve of her breasts, up to the smooth column of her throat, then--wary--over her face.
Her face.
"Much better," Alistair says approvingly.  "How you feeling?"
Not just fixed: remade.  And more than that; it takes her far too long to realize what she feels isn't new, just unfamiliar; she's not tired.  She'd forgotten there was anything but exhaustion.  She forgot how that felt.
"Good, Master," she answers blankly as long twists of locked hair falls around her face.  Reaching up automatically, she starts to roll the twists together at the back of her head and pauses, staring at them filling her hands.  She used to do that (before).  "I don't remember what I looked like."
"Don't worry, we did." Alistair extends his hand.  She takes it without hesitation, and once on her feet, he turns her to face a mirror.  She stares at the reflection in bewilderment: rich, dark skin, wide brown eyes, full lips parted in surprise, hair in long, hip-length twists; that's her.  That's her. "Cas?"
"Perfect." She shivers, warmth trickling over her skin at the low, gravelly appreciation rolling through the single word and desperately tries not to think about it.  In the mirror, she sees Castiel sitting up, watching her, and there's no way she can not think it.  
Alistair laughs.
"I never hated you," she says, meeting Castiel's surprised eyes in the mirror, then looks away.  "Not until--not until you left." 
Alistair snorts, dropping on the bed by Castiel. 
"I get it, that's how it works," she says to the mirror, and she does.  "I just...you were gone."
"That's how it works," Alistair agrees. "What we leave on the rack we can't get back.  It can't survive here, and with it, neither can we."
She shuts her mouth.
"That's a lot of empty space, though," he adds.  "We're starting from scratch, and sometimes, it's easier just to miss what you lost than get to work filling it up.  Sure, I could have let Cas keep you, but that?  That's all you'd ever be: a pet, less than nothing at all.  So yeah, that's how it works; no other way to make us start filling that fucking space, and even then, half never even fucking try."  He laughs suddenly.  "This is Hell and it's not like its easy, but you--given a choice, you picked the hardest way every time and that's before you even rose."
She nods.
"And you were just getting started, weren't you?" Alistair continues.  "Half the Pit's fodder; half the rest probably should be, but you--you used it.  You spent fifty years training my lieutenants into giving you exactly what you wanted for the privilege of making you scream and beg and crawl anytime they wanted; they took the deal and only then found out you never said you would even pretend to care."  He sits back, grinning.  "You know why I picked them?"
"They're loyal, Master," she says, because they are.  "And they're the most dangerous demons in the Pit."
"They're rabid dogs," Alistair says.  "The only difference between them and Spot and Fido is the number of legs."
"I like Spot and Fido," Castiel says lazily.  "They're very, very good dogs."
"And that," Alistair agrees, grinning at Castiel before looking at her.  "They're useful, but they have limits.  They made those all themselves, do you believe it?  You, though…."
She turns around.  "Master?"
"You haven't met a limit yet," he says thoughtfully.  "I'm not sure you even know what they are." He leans back an arm.  "You start your formal apprenticeship tomorrow at dawn."
She tries not to stiffen; she doesn't need to wonder how Alistair's lieutenants will react to her among them, much less whoever gets her.  "Yes, Master."
"Don't look so worried," Alistair says, looking amused by something.  "Cas has been planning this since I put you on the rack."
It takes her way too long to understand.  "To Castiel, Master?" Castiel is the general of Alistair's army, the instructor of every demon in the Pit, but that's not the same thing; an apprentice is personal.  Alistair himself took only one, Castiel himself, and Castiel none at all.  If she'd ever thought about it, she would have assumed even if Castiel wished to, Alistair would never, ever allow it.
Alistair drops back on the mattress, laughing, and Castiel shakes his head before the cold blue eyes bore into her.  "Alistair gave you to me before you ever saw the rack.  When your breaking was mishandled, it was for me that Alistair put you together anew.  To avoid the possibility of repetition, he permitted me to break you myself, and you rose unflawed.  And then I was ordered to let you go. I was not pleased and questioned his motives."  His gaze flickers to Alistair, still lying on the bed and grinning.  "He was, of course, right."
"I never get tired of hearing you say that," Alistair says, sitting up.  "Gets better every time, actually."
"You rose unflawed," Castiel continues.  "Now, you're perfect, and like my Master, it would be beneath me to accept anything less."
She nods, though she's not sure she understands.  She also doesn't care.  "Yes, Master."
"Good girl," Alistair says as Castiel rests his chin on Alistair's shoulder, both looking at her as if-- "You can go."
If you want.  She doesn't even glance at the door.  "Or, Master?"
"You can stay."  Her eyes flicker to the rack.  "Probably.  What else--only one way to find out.  Alea iacta est."
The flush turns into a warm, sensuous heat as she imagines what he'll do to her--what they'll do to her.  "I'll stay, Master."
They both smile at her.  "Come here," Alistair says.  One step, two, and his hand closes molten-hot over her wrist, jerking her into his lap before sliding around her waist, fingers trailing like drops of quicksilver; she wonders if she'll see his fingerprints later in her back, marked out in pure silver.  She hopes so.
"Almost forgot," Alistair says, a knife appearing between his fingers before the tip comes to rest at the hollow of her throat; she has to fight not to lean into the prick of pain.  It's not enough, not now; she wants to feel it buried inside her, slice her wide open, take her apart over and over again.  "All that and more, but not quite yet," he chides her.  "One more thing.  You tell her, Cas."
Cas tips her head up, thumb sliding slowly along her jaw.  "It is our will that you are returned that which is yours, now and forever," he says, meeting her eyes.  "Vera."
Vera freezes, something cracking open in her mind as her skin parts beneath the blade sliding down her body; that's her name.  "C-Cas?"
"It's been a very long time, Vera," Cas murmurs against her lips. "I've missed you."
@@@@@@
This isn't the first time Dean's had to stop and take a moment when confronted with Cas exercising his creativity in the Pit--it's never not been fucking awesome--but he can honestly state at no time did this form ever cross his mind.
"Is that grass?" his companion asks.
"Looks like it."  About ten acres of perfectly mown grass just--sitting there, like a lawn transplanted from suburbia.  Illusion, construct, or maybe the real thing (how? Cas): it's not like there's any difference between them here.  "I wonder where he's putting the garden?"
She stiffens; while no one's allowed to see work in progress (even Dean, fuck it), everyone's very aware Cas is perfecting Act 6 of his latest installation and is always pleased to get new material for his drafts.  Her eyes abruptly narrow; following her gaze, he sees Cas and Vera pacing the perimeter, Fido, Spot, and a pup at their heels.
"I see Castiel's enjoying his new toy."
"When I'm good, I'm good." He watches Cas stop to check something, Vera watching him closely.  Generally, plans exist only to disappoint you, but not this time.  Once they got past the fuck-up on the rack and the fallout, anyway.  Sure, they had to wait longer than they expected, but Vera sure as fuck didn't waste those years.  She knows more about the Pit now than most demons ever guess; maybe a few--other than him and Cas, of course--might know more, but he wouldn't bet on it.  On a guess, she also probably knows more about Hell itself than anyone but him, Cas, and the oldest demons still in existence, if those very well-concealed excursions beyond the borders are anything to go by.
(He still can't get over it; powerless, practically helpless, and falling half-apart, she wandered in and out of territories even the strongest demons--including his lieutenants--wouldn't risk entering without an army at their back, skimming the borders of unclaimed territories and the no-lands before walking on her own two not-even-fucking-there feet into one of the strongholds of the putative rulers of Hell itself and stood feet away from the throne of a fallen angel.  Cas hadn't taken that shit well at all.  Of course, that's why she could do it; demons have a blindspot when it comes to the weakest, especially the most powerful ones, like they can't even see them.  That may be fine ninety-nine point nine nine nine percent of the time, but Dean knows from experience you always watch for that point zero zero zero one or you're very dead.  
Not that she'll be pulling that shit again anytime soon; the bindings of formal apprenticeship mean she's restricted on where she can go, which is currently 'anywhere not in Cas's line of sight outside the Tower'.  Dean figures a couple of hundred years, Cas may lighten up, but he's not betting on it.  Unlike demons, he's careful with all his toys; nothing happens to them unless he wants it to.)
"Under Castiel, I thought her education would have proceeded more quickly," his companion adds with a shitty attempt at casual.  "It's been a decade and she's still restricted."
"It's almost like making an unconditional deal could one day bite you in the ass," he answers, grinning at her over his shoulder. "Welcome to contract law, sweetheart: the only reason I didn't discipline you for stupidity was because I had to see this play out." Another thing that worked out even better than he thought: Vera didn't dissolve her deal with his lieutenants or with those she was protecting in the Pit.  Result: as Cas's apprentice, she's inviolable and therefore they can't punish her for the sins of those pledged to her, his idiot lieutenants can't touch any of them, per contract, and now they're free to do whatever the fuck they want.
(All of whom haven't wasted a second gloating but are getting shit done as well as regularly reporting to her; he's going to be interested who in that group will be next to come to the Tower.  He won't admit he has a preference, but that doesn't mean it doesn't exist, or he isn't considering how to make it happen.  He's got some ideas.)
"Don't worry about it," he adds, twisting the knife. "Give her a century or two, she may be willing to renegotiate."
"A century?" she exclaims, probably thinking about that group, too; she's not completely stupid, though maybe that's wishful thinking.  "Apprenticeships never take that long."
"It takes as long as it takes," he answers as Fido and Spot edge closer to Cas's legs, the pup trying to climb over them to see what's so interesting.  He focuses on the pup, currently bouncing at the heels of the adults: Fido's latest litter.  Only survivor, come to think: it took Cas fifteen generations to produce Fido, the first to hit all Cas's criteria.  Of the six breeding next-gen adults they have now, Fido's the most consistent in breeding true, which is basically one pup every ten or so litters.  Which reminds him: he should find out who sired this one.
As they watch, the Hellhounds begin squabbling.  Vera's gaze jerks sideways, and all three drop to their bellies, heads burrowing against the ground.  "Look at that," he says in satisfaction. "Barely half a decade with them and they already obey her.  Give her enough time, she'll be able to control a full pack on the hunt."
His companion remains silent, possibly because she can't manage more than five at best.
"Wonder what she'll do with 'em?" he adds, because this is fun.  
As Cas finishes, Vera nods at the Hounds, and they get to their feet, looking a little abashed (they do, actually, know better than to distract Cas).  At her gesture, the pup bounces toward her, and crouching, she pets the bony head before picking it up, tucking it against her shoulder as Cas calls Fido and Spot and walks into the grass, manifesting a stick in one hand.
"She's soft on them."
"It's like you've never heard of the carrot and the stick," he answers, watching her quiet the pup with a look, and it settles into her arms.  "Nothing and no one can hurt you like someone you love.  By the time she's done, it'd rather be gutted alive than see her frown."  He glances back, not surprised she doesn't understand--or doesn't want to, which in the end's the same thing.  
Coming to the center of the grass, Cas throws a stick for Fido and Spot, who stare at him incredulously. Okay, didn't see that coming, though yeah, that would explain the stick.  
"He's playing fetch with Hellhounds?" his companion says, sounding exactly like Fido and Spot look.
"Why not?"  Curious, he watches Cas call back the stick and take two deliberate steps back and both Hellhounds abruptly start to look panicked.  It escalates fast, too: from running in circles to darting around yet never reaching the edge of the perfect circle of very green grass.  Finally, they drop to the ground, cowering against the bright grass.
Cas watches them, head tilted curiously, then steps forward and both Hellhounds visibly relax, leaping to their feet and looking around again suspiciously.  This time, when Cas throws the stick, they run for it, and Dean bites back a laugh at the reaction of the one who doesn't get it.  Petting Fido--Cas's preference is pretty obvious there--he watches Spot before throwing the stick again, and Spot gratefully catches it and returns with his tail firmly between his legs.
He doesn't need to examine the structure to work out what this is doing.  "How does he think of this shit?"
"I don't get it," she says flatly, and Dean fails to be surprised but succeeds in disappointment; anyone's gonna be a disappointment after Cas, yeah, but it's like she's trying to make an effort at it. "They can't get out if they don't get the stick or don't try--so what?"
"Hellhounds don't have any imagination."  She gives him a confused look.  "A guess.  I'll let you try it next, you tell me if I'm right."  Her eyes widen. "Not that I don't appreciate ad hoc groveling or anything, but any reason you came up here?"
At least she doesn't make the mistake of fucking with him.  "I'm wondering if it's worth the risk of spending eternity hanging from a chain."
"Depends on the messenger's good intentions."  Every person who came running to tell him Cas was fucking around is there, too.  He might have been easier on them if they'd done it for him, and they had, give them that much; that they'd also done it to get rid of Cas and into Dean's bed, not okay.  "And not forever: I'd take you down when I needed you.  But not a second before then."  He grins at her.  "Pay or play, sweetheart."
She stares at him for a long moment.  "One of your lieutenants has been suborned."
"I know."  She looks startled.  "By the way, you just impressed me.  How'd you find out?"
"He didn't let me read him."  She makes a face.  "He never lets me, of course, but this time--he stopped fighting too quickly."
"Just long enough to hide something, wow, he's stupid."  He searches her face. "What else?"
She swallows before dropping to her knees. "I failed you, Master.  I was unaware that he had betrayed you."
Oh, that.  Looking down at her, he considers his options.  "Get up," he says finally, and she struggles to her feet, clumsy the way she usually isn't.  Reaching out, he cups her face, and the wide eyes fix on him, filled with terror and adoration in equal measure. "You didn't fail; he did."
"You appointed me to lead them, Master," she answers dully.  "His actions are mine."
"He was always going to fuck us over," Dean tells her.  "Only reason I kept him was because he was useful; you were the one who made sure he stayed useful this long.  Not bad, by the way."
"There's more," she whispers, starting to shake, but her eyes never leave his.  "I think--I saw something in his mind.  Something that--he's planning something against Castiel.  I came to you the moment I was able to see it, I don't know when--"
"Hold up."  Dean turns around and scans the field, then just beyond it: look at that.  "That would be now."
It's the least subtle sneaking over the border possible, but if he was fair--he's not--normally this area is exactly where you'd want to try.  There's literally nothing here, which is probably why Cas chose it for his latest experiment.
"With friends," he murmurs, tensing: the three with him are Pit, but they're not his, which means his lieutenant been hiding them personally from Cas's purges.  He just stops himself from snapping Cas up onto the cliff with him.  "Get two of the others you trust and find out who's waiting out there. I'll take care of this."
"Yes, Master," she says, starting to step back.
"Why'd you tell me?" he asks, and from the corner of his eye, he sees her stops cold.  "I could rip it out of your mind, but hey, you earned five seconds."
"He's yours, Master," she says, and he can actually hear the centuries-long struggle in her voice.  "You're my Master, and he rules beside you by your decree; that makes him my Master, too. That is the only thing that matters."
And here he thought only Cas could do anything new in Hell.  "By my will, that which was yours is yours again: your name .  Her mouth drops open, eyes wide.  "Congratulations, Erica; atonement for fucking up with Vera is done." He grins at her.  "Don't approach yet: all I need to know is who it is out there.  And don't get caught: I'll be pissed if I have to come get you myself and put you back together."
"Yes, Master," she says breathlessly, worshipfully.  "Thank you, Master." Stepping back, she vanishes, and Dean steps off the cliff just as on the side closest to the border, the four idiots step onto the grass and abruptly look confused, because sometimes, everything just works out like that.
"Cas," he says, and Cas turns with a bright smile, Fido and Spot both looking hilariously relieved. "Come here."  Without argument, Cas--with both Hellhounds on his heels--walks over the edge and back out, looking pleased with himself as Vera barely catches herself before dropping to her knees, eyes flickering up to him with an expression he doesn't quite catch before lowering her head submissively.  "You, too."
The pup begins to wiggle, jumping from her arms when she's almost close enough. Almost: Dean catches it before it hits the ground, holding it up to get a good look.  "Look at you," he croons, keeping half his attention on the increasingly distressed looking idiots. Barking happily, it licks as soon as its in range.  "My bad, I haven't visited, sorry."  Too long, come to think: the last he saw it, it was just a newborn bag of bones and patches of fur barely holding together, because Lilith's work ethic was (according to Cas) really lacking when it came to sufficient gestation. 
It barks its agreement before settling into the crook of his arm.  "How's it doing?" he asks, scratching underneath its chin.
"Perfect," Cas answers, sounding pleased.  "The imprinting was fully successful and Vera gave it its name. It should select female to match its owner when it comes of age, and with two breeding females, I can eliminate all but the foundation lines for this variation.  None of the others have shown this much potential."
He looks at Vera.  "What did you name it?"
"Lucca," she answers, smiling at it fondly.  "It keeps asking if you were visiting again soon, in case you're curious."
He grins down at it and it barks, revealing dozens of tiny razor teeth.  Regretfully, he hands it back.  "I'm sending you back to the Tower," he says, and she nods, starting to put Lucca down.  "Take it with you: now that you named it, it shouldn't leave your side unless it's ordered to.  From now on, everything it needs and wants should come directly from your hand alone, and that includes when it first starts hunting." She nods.  "We'll talk about it later."
"Yes, Master," she says, tucking it against her shoulder before looking at Cas, who smiles back, more at ease than Dean can remember since the last incursion on their borders (that was so much fun, they've got to get someone to try again).  The near-constant, destructive restlessness is leashed, or maybe redirected would be more accurate; Vera's maybe the only one who can live inside the focused intensity that Cas gives to his projects.  She's everything Dean hoped she'd become when he strapped her to the rack and even more: exactly what Cas needed.  She'll never bore him, never disappoint or annoy him, never fail him, never betray him, a student worth the Master's efforts to shape her: Cas's perfect material.  And if Cas feels the need to give her all his attention, well, Dean can't actually argue; he's doing exactly what Dean taught him.
After she's gone, he turns to Cas, who looks dangerously close to asking what's he's doing here.  "She's even better than I thought she'd be."  Which is saying something; she's farther along than he expected, too, and he wonders uncomfortably how he missed that, or what else he might have missed.
Cas smiles.  "Of course.  My Master was thorough in my education; I could do no less."  Dean laughs, sliding an arm around Cas's waist and tugging him closer.  "Though as yet, I haven't been able to entirely eradicate the instinct to kneel in your presence," he adds with a frown.  "Human instincts are difficult to eradicate, of course, but those bestowed here are artificial; they should not be this persistent, especially considering her progress so far."
Yeah, he saw that.  "Has she argued with you yet?"
"No, but I haven't been able to bring myself to provide sufficient provocation," he admits reluctantly.  "I enjoy spending time with her. If I misjudged her progress, the discipline will have something of a--chilling effect." He takes a breath.  "I'll create an opportunity--"
"Don't," Dean tells him, though not because there's any chance he'll lose his new toy. "It's got to happen on its own and she has to choose to do it.  Otherwise, the first time you discipline her, she'll never do it again no matter what happens."
"The discipline your lieutenants inflicted on her didn't deter her," Cas argues.  "And I certainly wouldn't lower myself to their methods; they seem to confuse 'excess brutality' with 'effectiveness', and fail quite dramatically on the second."
Well, yeah, but that's because Cas has a different standard for 'effective' and also, a different definition altogether.  Which makes sense: the best they could do--which by any normal standard is pretty fucking effective, if not particularly sophisticated or imaginative--wouldn't so much as get his attention if he was the subject. As an observer….it'd be like asking Michelangelo or Da Vinci to admire the efforts of a two year old with poor motor control and a broken yellow crayon.  
"Their methods are actually have a start and end point no matter what happens between," Dean tries.  "They're effective; they're just designed to actually end. Yours start, sure, but just because they have an endpoint doesn't mean they end; they stick around possibly forever, I’m still testing that." He rolls his eyes at Cas's skeptical expression.  "I didn't say they aren't boring as fuck, just that's not the same thing as 'effective'."
Cas looks baffled. "That they seem to find monotony entertaining…."
"Trust me, I know." Though gotta give them credit, Vera definitely offered them some inspiration for development there when they had her.  "Look, it wouldn't have mattered what they did to her; she didn't care.  No matter what you do, it'll be a hundred times worse, because you matter to her.  She has to decide to do it, take the discipline, and then be willing to do it again knowing the consequences." He remembers her expression again and thinks he knows the problem now.  "She's afraid of me."
Cas frowns. "Of course.  She'll never not be."
"This is the wrong kind.  The only thing that got her into the Tower in the first place was you and she didn't expect to survive," he says flatly, barely controlling the rising anger at the memory of how she looked at Cas, how he looked at her…what the fuck is wrong with him?  "I didn't kill her--I fixed her, for fuck's sake!--but she's still there, waiting for me to destroy her just because I can."  
"She was in the Pit for all her existence here," Cas says reasonably.  "You are Chief Torturer of Hell and Master of the Pit, but most importantly, you are her Master, and for all her remembered existence, had always been and would always be.  Her memories from before are a very small part of her existence in whole now, and they can't simply erase all she has experienced since."
"She's not like that around you," Dean says hotly before he can stop himself, knowing how stupid it sounds, like he doesn't know how this works.
"Of course not; she's my apprentice," he answers, even more reasonably, like that's supposed to help.  "The requirements of formal apprenticeship assure there is nothing she is that I do not know, but for me to fully shape her to my will, her obedience alone is not sufficient. She must know me as well, so that I may teach her to want only what I desire for her. The process takes far longer than if I were to utilize cruder methods, but what is created will be without flaw, and I will accept nothing less." Then, "Or so my Master taught me."
"Don't even," Dean warns, because yeah, he does know that.  It was something neither Alistair nor his successor ever understood, which is why Alistair's rule ended on earth after capture by an angel from fucking Heaven and Dean defeated his predecessor and the armies of three territories with an army he recruited from the Pit itself under the fucker's very nose, among its officers the fucker's own lieutenants, and led by Cas.
(Not that he needed an army when he had Cas, but he was making a point.  And hey, they were useful for the clean-up after.)
Fear and obedience are useful, but they're just tools, and like any tool, given time, given pressure, they can break.  He's the one hundred and fifth undisputed ruler of the Pit, taking the Throne by both right of succession and right of conquest, and his rule isn't just among the longest in memory; he's also the first Master since the First whose rule has never been formally challenged from without or, most importantly, from within.  His lieutenants can't be suborned (except the ones he wants to be), his officers can't be bought (not after being broken and reformed by him and Cas), his armies are entirely beneath his (read Cas's) hand, and even the smallest incursions at his borders are paid for tenfold. He barely has to do a thing, to be honest; this is the Pit of Hell, and it and those within have knelt to him the way they've knelt for no one and nothing else since the first Master Ascended its throne.
Of all the territories of Hell, the Pit is the closest to the purity of chaos, nearly untouched by angels and their need for order. It first formed not by the deliberate claim of a single ruler but to isolate the inhabitants from the more well-ordered territories ruled by pet demons beneath the hand eye of the rulers of Hell and their too-delicate sensibilities.  The Pit is where the greatest mass of raw humanity still resides, both on the rack and in the newly broken souls still too weak to escape the squalor, alongside demons so old and so mindlessly brutal or monstrous that they had to be driven from other territories when they were too strong to destroy, and the meat of the Pit, demons that were nothing and never tried to be anything else.  The borders of the Pit have always been as uncertain as the vastness of the territory they encompass; more than one who claimed to rule never left the confines of their stronghold within the capital city, and even Dean can't honestly say they didn't have reason to be wary (though that's no excuse).  There's no way to estimate a population always in flux, from newly-damned human souls to demons older than the existence of any territory in Hell, whose breaking was accomplished when angels still administered the rack.
Rule of the Pit belongs to the strongest, the most powerful, the most ruthless, the most determined, the most skilled, and not unrelated, the most sadistic; there's a reason the Chief Torturer of Hell was the first to formally claim the Pit in its entirety as her domain, taking the personal submission of every demon within before Ascending its Throne, and her rule lasted a thousand years.  She built the capital city from which she ruled, set the borders of the Pit and guarded them jealously against incursion, and personally instructed every demon beneath her hand before they were allowed to administer the rack.  She chose her lieutenants not from the minions cluttering the angelic courts, but from those broken on the rack by her hand alone and personally shaped to her will and trained in all of her skills.
While Chief Torturer of Hell and Master of the Pit aren't actually synonymous, as it began so it goes on; no one less could hope to demand the obedience of the Pit and get it and no one could match the strength or the skill of the one the Pit called Master.  Technically, angels still have the right to appoint the Chief Torturer of Hell and can give the job to anyone they want without regard for the laws of succession; in practice, accepting the appointment without also having claimed the Pit is a very convoluted but guaranteed way for your existence in any perceivable (or maybe usable?) form in Hell to come to an abrupt end, and that's not actually easy to do.  Souls, unlike a human body, don't have an expiration date, aren't subject to decay, and you can't actually destroy one entirely forever. Which just means you gotta adjust your expectations when getting rid of someone to 'as long as possible' and get creative in deciding how to make that happen.
(Dean's never really seen the point of that; sure, it's fun for about five seconds but then it's over.  Making them kneel though…that's forever, and you get to see it any time you want.  Not to mention the waste; if others want to destroy their own base, let 'em.  He can recall anyone he's purged or destroyed with a thought, ready and willing to serve (and grateful: pathetically, deliciously, ecstatically grateful, and that also never, ever gets old).)
It's been millennia since any angel tried to exercise that right beyond making the new Master come to them for confirmation along with taking their formal submission before the most powerful demons and the rulers of every recognized territory in Hell.  Traditionally, unless you were a suckup from the oldest territories or one of their fucking pets, you dragged that shit out until you got a formal summoning (that, as it turns out, really is impossible to disobey). Upon his Ascension, when Dean received his formal invitation to present himself before them, though, he didn't fuck around making them wait any longer than it took him to give his lieutenants their orders, put Cas under, and lock down the Tower (not that if Cas came to, that would do shit but maybe slow him down, but if his lieutenants were stupid enough not to get out of his way, he really didn't care).   It's not like he was looking forward to groveling for a straight fucking month on icy-white marble floors (seriously) among pristine marble columns (no, seriously) under the noses of every angel and half the demons of Hell, but he couldn't risk any rumor of how he conquered the Pit getting back to them before the appointment was formalized and his submission was made. 
It's not that they couldn't kill him after that--part of your submission is verbally acknowledging their right to do just that but with way more words interspersed with pauses for recreational groveling--but see angelic sensibilities and their thing for order; they can, but as long as he plays inside their rules, they won't.  That much he proved the day Cas first joined him on the Throne, and giddy, he realized it wasn't just a maybe anymore; one day, he was going to take the submission of Hell itself and sit on its Throne in his own right, and Cas was gonna be right beside him.
If Hell really thinks he's only working from the old playbook of Alistair and Africanus and Leviticus and Selev to get these kinds of results, this is going to go way faster than best case scenario. If there's any playbook he's borrowing from, it's the First's, and he thinks she'd approve of his updates.
"It takes time to adapt to the change in circumstances," Cas continues.  "Vera simply needs time, Dean.  She doesn't know you yet."
And that, Dean realizes, is the entire fucking problem.
"I'm surprised you even noticed her," Cas adds casually as if in emphasis of the fucking obvious.  "Apprentices usually bore you, especially ones this early in their training."
"With my lieutenants, yeah: they make shitty picks," he says defensively, but Cas is right; he hasn't noticed her.  In fact, thinking about it, he can count the number of times on one hand that he's seen her since her apprenticeship began when he didn't summon her himself. "Yours, not so much."
Cas starts to answer then stops with a frown. "Is that why you're here now? Not that I object to your attention," he adds. "But I thought you were with your lieutenants."
Right, that: talk about being distracted. Glancing at the idiots inside the lawn still, he checks in with Erica; she's almost there, good.  "Quick question," Dean says.  "Why'd you decide to do whatever this is here?"
"This is the most remote and therefore the most vulnerable of the Pit's borders," he answers, like that's not a very good reason for him to stay far, far away from it.  "If this works, it should--distract--anyone who tries to cross the border against your will and hold them here without damage, to be retrieved at your pleasure.  Battle is all well and good, but there's no reason not to add variety to our defenses."
Dean keeps his gaze firmly on Cas, but wow, those demons are starting to look seriously freaked out, which isn't easy to do to with demons, even shitty ones.  What he's not sure of is exactly how. "So you're, what--using their own minds, right?"
Cas smiles in pleasure.  "You watched Fido and Spot?" Dean nods.  "I had to implant several suggestions in the design for them.  Demons have more imagination than Hellhounds--the latter having none--but that's not saying much, so there are some specific additions for them as well."
"No one's up to your standards," Dean says, grinning despite himself and tightening his hold.  "Just suggestions?"
"Only in the first draft," Cas answers, leaning against him.  "This version also includes an element of escalation; it encourages them to imagine how it could be worse, and worse it will immediately be."
Dean kisses him: only Cas.  "Goddamn amazing," he says against Cas's lips. "We're definitely using this."
"I haven't tested it on anything but Fido and Spot," Cas protests. "It seemed effective, but…." Dean glances at the field and Cas follows his gaze and frowns thoughtfully, watching as they start to panic.  "Oh, interesting.  Did you bring them?
"Nope."  Dean glances toward the border and feels Erica's triumphant confirmation and orders her to call in his other lieutenants and keep them surrounded but not approach, not yet.  "Two of your Brothers' toys are out there."  Before Cas can look, Dean tips his head up and stares into the blue eyes, looking at the whole reason he followed Cas out here today.  "Pay attention, Cas.  The reason I'm here is that you're blocking me."
Cas's eyes widen, and Dean just manages to keep his temper in check; there's no way Cas could have known he was never, ever supposed to do that.  He's never had to discipline Cas for anything he didn't do deliberately to piss him off (that's just good fun, come on), and fuck if he'll start now.
"Tell me not to look and I won't," he says carefully, holding Cas's eyes. "I love surprises.  But don't ever block me."
"I'm not--"  Cas stills, not a good sign.  "I'm not doing that.  I would never do that.  I thought--I thought you must have done it so you could watch without me noticing.  That's why I was surprised you were here."
Fuck: now this is a problem.  Turning, he puts himself between Cas and the border and examines this area and then the entire Pit and can't find anything.  The laws of contamination still apply, and Cas is--technically speaking--still an angel, no way around that.  So how would they use that to get him over the border....
"I can't feel the lawn anymore," Cas whispers. "I can't feel the Pit, or you--it's as if you're no longer here.  What did they do to me?"  Dean brushes a calming kiss against his forehead as the Pit begins to tremble around them.  Normally, that'd be a little worrying (not that he doesn't love Cas's extempore renovations, but it's been a while since Cas did it on accident), but right now, he's all for it; whatever they did to him, the Pit can still feel and respond to Cas just fine. So something out here is doing it and it's specific enough to affect Cas but not anything else: that narrows it down.  "Dean--"
"Give me a second," he says as the Pit upgrades to a low-grade quake underneath them.  Angels don't have new ideas, and there's only one thing that would hit Cas like this; the only surprise is that he didn't sense it. As Cas's fingers tighten in his shirt, Dean turns his attention on the four idiots and concentrates; there we go. Grace from outside the Pit would be enough to notice when it locked him out of this area (and Cas while in it), but the tiny bit of Grace in those four, while not enough to pick up individually, together and in proximity to Cas, would block him from the Pit, at least temporarily.  If they got close enough to him, boxed Cas in, the four together would be just barely enough that one snap from his Brothers through one of their pets outside the border would take Cas right over it before Dean or the Pit knew it happened until they sensed his absence and it was almost too late.  
Almost: he's not stupid (though they apparently are if they thought any of their pets could hope to survive what would happen if this had actually worked).
"Look at me."  Meeting the blue eyes, he studies it again, carefully following its trail and marking how they did it.  "It's fine, easy to fix."  And it'll never happen again: he can see in Cas exactly where he needs to do some more work.
"How--"
"The four idiots currently--doing that." Dean bites down in amusement at the reaction of one of them: he's got to see what the fuck that is.  He's always open to new ideas.  "Did I ever tell you I love your work?"
Cas's mouth twitches reluctantly. "Thank you, but you might say that's their work.  Now please fix this."
"I need to do something first.  Can I go in there or do I need you with me?"  Cas wouldn't be above fucking with him and honestly, he regrets missing it if that was the plan. Tabula rasa would have blown his mind, and anyway, Cas loves surprising him and he hates disappointing him.
"You can," Cas answers.  "I thought you'd find it next time you took your lieutenants to patrol this border and would find their reaction amusing."
Dean kisses him; that would have been hilarious. "Oh, I'm definitely doing that.  Wait here." He gives Cas another kiss when he tenses unhappily.  "The block's nothing: I'm always with you, just like I promised."  Even if they'd gotten Cas out, which on a guess, they wouldn't have expected either.
Licking his lips, Cas nods, but the tension doesn't ease; it's not that he doesn't know it or believe it, he just doesn't like it, especially with fucking angel-toys this close.  Spot whines in confusion, but Fido moves closer, shifting her body to press against Cas's legs and between him and the lawn, a low growl reverberating through ground beneath them.  
"Good girl," Dean says in approval and steps onto the law.
Inside, it looks just the same as outside--a perfect suburban lawn, Pit all around--but when he focuses on what's happening to those demons, he can't help grinning: yeah he's definitely trying that the next opportunity he gets.  Almost regretfully, he snaps his fingers, ending the scenario and watching everything unmake immediately, leaving them exactly as they entered, completely undamaged: nothing to fix for later fun and games, it's great.
They stare at him in recognition and slowly growing horror, and it says a lot (awesome things) that he still scares them more than anything, even--well, that.  Fast recovery time, too: just keeps getting better. "Master…." His ex-lieutenant starts.  It's almost tempting to hear what he comes up with, but hey, he doesn't need to talk for Dean to find out.
"Kneel."  They hit the ground, and Dean decides against subtlety.  Effortlessly, he pulls each of their minds open and guts each one, getting the entire plan and seeing if he was right about how this would go down; no surprise, he was, but it also tells him just how much he missed.  One of them has been following Cas every time he leaves nospace.  This little project was their first and best chance and they took it.  Erica's suspicions got them moving, but they hadn't expected her to act immediately if Cas was the target; fair enough, that surprised him, too.  
The whole thing pisses him off, but it adds an extra something they also fucked up Cas's surprise for him.  Carefully, he puts their minds back together good as new; sure, it takes time, but Cas deserves to have his newest toys in mint condition to do their duty as test subjects.  
"I wonder if you can possibly imagine what I'm gonna do to you when you get out of here," he says as they sway uncertainly.  "I gotta top whatever happens here, so honestly, can't wait to see what you come up with."  He smiles at their terror.  "See you then."
Walking back out, he snaps his fingers, restarting from the top and setting the whole area for observation only, then reaches for Cas, keeping half his attention on the border.  "I gotta see the design," he tells Cas. "Deep breath: this will only take a second."  Meeting the clear blue eyes, he checks one more time and finds the block again, easing between it and Cas and follows it to the source, holding them both in his mind. All at once, he takes apart the block and pulls in the entire Pit to blow everything straight where it came from; from what he can tell, that hurt.  Cas sucks in a startled breath, relaxing against him as Dean cleans the remains from his mind then shows him what he got from the four idiots' minds . "Your Brothers needed mules: they provided. It won't happen again."
Cas closes his eyes, head dropping against his shoulder.  "You're sure--"
"Really sure," he says soothingly, threading his fingers through the dark hair, and sends a command to Erica: take them, gut them, and stake them in the Pit for whatever wants them, then pauses, remembering where those pledged to Vera are currently hiding.  Even gutted and staked, these four would usually only be meat for the very strongest, but they've trained themselves to always hunt together and share what they take, going against every instinct a demon has. It'll still be a challenge for them, but if they can resist the temptation of fighting each other when faced with this much power and work together, they'll each have more than they've ever had access to since they got here.  He show Erica where he wants them staked.  There.  Leave as soon as you're done and don't return until I order it. 
"Can the idiots leave?" he asks Cas when they start staking them out; that's fun to do, yeah, but boring as fuck to watch.
Cas lifts his head.  "Of course," he answers with a ghost of amusement.  "Anytime they wish.  It's quite simple; all they must do is not let themselves become distracted while trying to escape."
And Cas once seriously believed there was something wrong with him. "Let's start with a week and see what happens.  I'll send Erica to check 'em daily, see how it's going."
"Erica."  Dean shows him what happened on the cliff, and Cas tilts his head, eyes unfocused, before he nods. "Tell her by my will she's excluded from the effects if she wishes to enter and observe.  She can decide if she wants them to see her or not.  Her observations will be useful in perfecting the design; I'll expect her to report those to me in full."
Dean raises his eyebrows as he passes the message, amused by her unconcealed surprise.  "Huh."
"Her loyalty to you is without flaw," Cas adds, looking thoughtful.  "How she interprets and expresses that loyalty is what is at fault.  It is possible her flaws can be corrected, should she choose to see them."
"Question is, will she ever see them." A question for the ages.  Giving some final instructions to Erica, he dismisses everything from his mind but Cas.  If he'd ignored that sudden blankness and decided to talk about it later instead of coming out here to see what Cas was up to, if Erica hadn't warned him--yeah, Cas's lawn took care of the immediate threat, but that's not the point.  Cas shouldn't have to tell him anything; this is Cas.  Dean should already have known.  "I haven't been paying enough attention to you," he says abruptly. "And don't say you don't mind," he adds when Cas frowns.  "You do.  Why didn't you say something?"
"I understand," he answers for a long moment.  "You have more important concerns, and I can certainly keep myself entertained in your absence."
Dean stiffens: that sounds way too familiar.  "As of now, you don't leave my presence for any reason without my express permission," he says, tightening his hold on Cas's jaw when he frowns, just short of shattering solid bone. "Do you understand?  Say it."
The blue eyes go blank.  "Yes, Master," he answers flatly in formal (read: pissed) acknowledgement; fuck his life, if this means constant random prostration and 'Master--" prefixed to every fucking sentence….  "May I ask for how long I am to be so restricted?"
"Assume the foreseeable future for a start," he answers. "Don't look like that; I'm not locking you up.  You want to go somewhere, tell me; I'll take you."
Yeah, that didn't help at all.  "May I know what I did to earn your discipline, Master?" he asks in the same flat voice, and Dean can almost see him debating when to drop to his knees and grovel in a thousand separate, obnoxiously submissive positions; he's probably making a priority list.  "I would beg to be permitted to offer my atonement for denying your will--"
"You didn't--" He stops himself before this gets any weirder (and before the groveling shit starts, please).  "You're mine; I'm entitled to anything I want from you, and right now, that includes your constant presence at my side."
"I've never denied you anything--"  
"You said I had 'more important' concerns," Dean interrupts.  "Don't tell me you didn't mean it; you did.  So how are you entertaining yourself, sweetheart?"
"I've done nothing in your absence that didn't have your formal approval," he answers with a slow smile.  "You chose my entertainments personally, in fact.  You certainly have the right to discipline me for obedience, but a Master without discipline of himself is nothing more than a beast.  I don't have the right to demand your attention--"
"You don't have any rights but what I give you," Dean tells him.  "That's one of them."
Cas's eyes flicker up.  "I know."
"You don't," Dean answers, "if you thought I wouldn't be there when you were experimenting with Lucca's parentage if you wanted me. Or when you're teaching Vera, for that matter; I didn't even know she'd named it." Then something else occurs to him and the rush of jealous rage drowns everything beneath it.  "Did you?" he whispers, closing his hand over Cas's throat.  "Want me there?"
Cas's eyes widen.  "What?"
"You think I gave you Vera to replace me?" he asks softly, already planning what he'll do to her for Cas even imagining that she--or anyone, ever--could do that.  Even the possibility--
"If you would like me to renovate the entire Pit," Cas answers coolly, "you need only ask.  My control has improved substantially; what part would you like me to destroy first?"
Through the fog of rage, Dean's aware this went sideways.  "Cas--"
"Choose, or I will for you," Cas says, way too calm, and the anger is almost washed away at the utter stillness around them, a sense of something waiting; it's really familiar and the Pit is paved in red reminders.  "Very well: I'll start where your lieutenants currently abide--"
"Kneel."
Cas drops to his knees without hesitation, and Dean takes a deep breath, making himself stop and think.  He sends a warn-off, but honestly, he'd almost welcome someone wandering close enough to see.  Walking over, he gets Cas's chin, tilting his head up.  "Yeah, fine, my bad: I shouldn't have said that."  Cas looks back without expression.  "You get I didn't mean it, come on."
"As you will, M--"
"Say 'Master' and I will rip you apart," Dean interrupts, jerking Cas's head higher.  "You done with the drama?"
"Are you?" Cas asks flatly.  "You know perfectly well I'm doing nothing objectionable and as you can't possibly be jealous of Vera merely because I enjoy her company, why…." He trails off, looking so genuinely surprised that Dean's remaining anger dissipates into--something that he doesn't think he wants to identify. The blue eyes search his face, like he's looking for something. Then, "I beg forgiveness," Cas says quietly, leaning into Dean's hand, and Dean gets the distinct impression that whatever Cas was looking for, he found it.
"It wasn't your fault," Dean says stiffly, brushing Cas's hair back.  This is ridiculous; he knows Cas wouldn't--he wouldn't.  "You--"
"I should have known," Cas corrects him, turning his head so his lips brush Dean's palm, and Dean wonders what the fuck just happened. "Perhaps you'll allow me to perform a less--formal atonement?"
"What would that be?" Dean asks warily; you wouldn’t think studying would be something he'd need to do here, but as it turns out, boy he was wrong.
"There's not one…yet," Cas answers, tongue sliding up the center of Dean's palm before looking up at him, pink lips wet.  "Your assistance in its creation would be invaluable."
That's the best idea he's heard possibly ever.  "Yeah," he says, staring to lean down to that tempting mouth and realizing belatedly there's other options here. "Get up."
"Your will is my life, Dean," Cas agrees.  "However, may I first have clarification on the terms of my discipline?"
What the fuck is Cas talking about?  "What--uh part?"
"All of it."
Fuck his life: closing his eyes, he takes a deep breath. Right, that.  "You don't leave my side.  Anywhere I go, you're going to go with me.  You want to go somewhere, I'll take you.  You need to do something, I'll go with you.  The only way you can leave me is you ask permission from me and I say yes, and spoiler: won't happen.  Anything else?"
"What if there is something I want?" Cas asks curiously.  
"Then I'll get it for you." Stepping closer, he looks down into Cas's eyes.  "There's nothing you need, nothing you could ever want, that you can't get from me.  You can have anything you want, but only from me.  If you ever turn to anyone else for anything--"
"You won't discipline me," Cas says in a completely different voice.  "Instead, you'll torture them for me while I watch.  Then you'll fix them, so you can make them watch you with me, so they know how much I want you, that their purpose now, their suffering, only makes me want you more.  Then you'll banish them to their chains and forget them until I remind you, and you'll call them back and do it all again."
Dean threads his fingers through the dark hair. "That'd be it."
"Then I must assume my discipline now is indicative of how much you want me," Cas adds unexpectedly,.  "I accept your terms."
Dean grins and extends a hand, pulling Cas to his feet.  "Took you long enough. How close were you to a full fucking prostration?"
"I was considering performing a Formal Atonement," he admits thoughtfully, and Dean just stops himself from shuddering; his predecessor really got off on those, which combined 'mediocrely gruesome' with 'boring as fuck' and went on for-fucking-ever. It wasn't even creative, for fuck's sake.  On further consideration, before he and Cas took over, that shit probably qualified as the height of entertainment; he should think about asking his predecessor one day about that. "I missed you," he adds.  "Sometimes, I wonder if reassuring you regarding my fidelity was a mistake.  As a method of gaining your undivided attention, it worked without fail."
You don't say.. "You could have just said something."
"I shouldn't have to."  Dean starts to argue, then stops himself.  "If you deny me what I want, I must assume that you have reason, and it's beneath me to beg for what you have decided I cannot have.  That doesn't mean I won't show my displeasure."
"In other words, it's my fault?"
"The alternative is to assume you're so stupid that you don’t know you're the only thing I want," Castiel answers, and okay, that's fair.  "So yes.  You have partially rectified your neglect with your order that I not leave your side without your permission, which I appreciate very much, as that also mean you cannot leave mine."
Dean blinks. "Wait, what?"
"Under the terms, the only way I can leave your side is for me to ask your permission to do so and you agree; that is the single method by which we may be separated by your will.  In contract law, any ambiguity favors the other party: in this case, me, and that is my interpretation. Therefore, unless I request to leave you and you agree, you cannot leave my side any more than I can leave yours." His eyes narrow.  "The fact you considered that a form of discipline, however…."
Cas knows natural law like he breathes, and contract law is only a small part of that: he can't be wrong, literally.  Dean doesn't pretend he'll ever have Cas's sophisticated understanding of the ins and outs of terms, but that doesn't mean he hasn't learned a few things.  "Since when does discipline have to be punishment?" he asks, sliding an arm around Cas's waist and drawing him closer.  "Sometimes, it's just fun for everyone, ever think of that?"
Cas smiles. "As you wish."  He tips his head.  "Does this mean you wish to take a more active part in Vera's education?"
"Why?  You couldn't do it wrong if you tried.  Hold that thought."  Waving Fido and Spot away to hunt, he opens their room in the Tower around them and feels himself relax just knowing no one and nothing can get Cas in here.  "You don't need me for her."
"I always need you," Cas corrects him, dropping onto the wide sofa.  "I think you will enjoy her a great deal.  You never took another apprentice after me--"
"And I never will." Teaching Cas during his apprenticeship was incredible, like getting high every goddamn day, and it's only gotten better since.  "Even if I wanted to, what would be the point?  I'd probably purge them before the end of the first day in sheer boredom.  If you didn't destroy them first, that is, and I wouldn't take bets on that."
The blue eyes flicker for a burning second.  "I brook rivals no better than my Master."
"Well, yeah." It would be pretty fucking epic, no lie, and might even be fun, but so not worth the bother.  Joining Cas, he cocks his head.  "Okay, why would I enjoy her?"
"She's mine," Cas answers, like it should be obvious.  "I should have recognized what was wrong before today," he adds, lazily sitting up before straddling Dean's lap.  "It upsets you, how she reacts to you."
He sighs, sliding his hands down Cas's thighs.  "It shouldn't," he admits.  "But yeah, it does."
"That can be easily corrected; she must know you and all that requires is your presence," he answers, resting his arms on Dean's shoulders and peering down at him.  "Assisting in her education will speed the process considerably."
Dean tips his head back against the couch.  "You think that'll work?"
"I know it will." Cas leans down, and Dean is perfectly happy to forget everything but Cas's warm mouth and the feel of him in his lap.
Then Cas pulls away.  "What--" Dean starts, then sees what Cas is watching: Erica just crossed onto the lawn, not even hesitating--gotta give her credit for courage there--and walking toward the test subjects.  With a touch lighter than Cas has ever bothered to use with any of Dean's lieutenants, he slides inside her mind and when she doesn't flinch--or at least, not much, not bad at all--Dean follows and starts to grin at what she's watching.  "Holy shit," he breathes, feeling Cas analyzing the design for flaws. "Dude, you're not going to find one, so stop and enjoy this."
True, it's like a low budget version of one of Cas's earliest installations--pure butchery, no artistry, not even a little style--but all the salient points are recreated almost perfectly.  Probably need the experience of being an installation to get the finer points, now that he thinks about it.  "This is awesome," he says, examining the structure with half his attention; how the fuck does Cas think of something like this, much less make it happen? "This their idea or yours?"
"In the absence of imagination on their part, it uses the most upsetting or traumatic experiences they've experienced themselves, witnessed, or learned of, in that order," he says, sounding distracted.  "Should that be insufficient material, I added simplified forms of my own work, but I didn't expect there would be need for it.  Even the Hellhounds didn't require me to tell them exactly how to suffer; mere suggestion was sufficient."
"In other words, they're wasting it," Dean interprets, not surprised at all.  "Remind me to get you better subjects."
"This iteration was simply a prototype," Cas answers dismissively, but Dean can hear the discouragement in his voice.  "They aren't taking advantage of its range for escalation or mitigation at all.  If I wanted to watch substandard reruns of my own work--well, I don't.  This is embarrassing to observe."
"It's perfect," Dean assures him.  "Your Brothers have a type in their toys, come on."  Cas wrinkles his nose.  "Being in there can't do anything but help."
"I live in hope. Until then…." He feels Cas's attention shift to Erica, and while she stiffens, for the first time, she doesn't fight it, something no amount of discipline so far had managed to put a dent in, so color him impressed.  "Erica, they require inspiration.  Can I trust you to see to it?"
Warily, she forms a concept and offers it for examination; it's also based on one of Cas's installations, but way better, like she actually gets what they're supposed to be about, and then--even more warily--her own interpretation.  It's genuinely interesting.
Cas smiles.  "Lovely," he tells her, and Dean just manages not to laugh at her not-hidden-fast-enough shock.  "I'm impressed with your creativity; please continue to exercise it. The field will accept your suggestions now; you're released from your other duties for the duration of the testing period.  Report to me daily." Then, "And do enjoy yourself."
She offers her gratitude and submission, dazed under the force of Cas's undiluted approval--something Vera responds to like a junkie to their drug of choice--and Dean's grinning as they withdraw  "Look at that," he says softly, sliding his hands under Cas's t-shirt and skimming his fingertips over the warm skin.  "Didn't make her scream even once."
"I did nothing different," Cas answers defensively, adding at Dean's raised eyebrow, "other than treat her as I do Vera.  Obedience is expected, but compliance is more--complicated.  It does not consistently respond to the subject's own will, and discipline is largely ineffective and can be counterproductive.  Rewarding each instance of compliance seems to yield the best results.  Withdrawal of that approval then becomes a discipline in itself, and its effectiveness is extraordinary."
"Give 'em a good enough carrot, they'll make the stick all by themselves," he agrees.  "Do it right, and what they'll do to themselves for you will be worse than anything you'd actually do." He grins.  "I told you, you couldn't do this wrong if you tried."
"I understood what you taught me in theory," Cas says, frowning.  "But watching the effect on Vera has been educational.  I don't remember why I thought it didn't make sense."
"It doesn't, not until you get someone you want that from," Dean explains.  "With them, though, it's the best part."  He sighs, resting his hands on Cas's thighs. "So that informal atonement thing--"
"I just realized," Cas interrupts, "that I forgot to inform you of the progress of my breeding program."
Dean blinks, staring up at him. "Seriously?  You want to talk about this now?"
"You seemed impressed with Lucca, so I thought you might be interested in its lineage," Cas answers reasonably.
Dean sighs.  "Fine, which one sired it? Was that their first litter with Fido?" He may only know the basics of what Cas is doing, but even he can see that Lucca's something special. 
"Second litter," Cas answers. "Lucca was the first survivor, however.  I was surprised by Lucca, to be honest.  In retrospect, the failure of the first litter was doubtless due to the sire's reluctance; it was much less difficult the second time."  Dean gives him an interested look.  "In Fido's presence, I gave it the instincts and conditioning of a male Hellhound and let nature take its course when she went into heat. Hellhounds are strictly matriarchal, so success was inevitable."
Dean pauses, startled; okay, didn't see that coming. Or even know it was possible, so he's learned something new and very, very cool.  "Who did you use?"  And what did they do to make Cas decide they needed some time under a female Hellhound, especially a breeding one.  Lilith didn't fuck around making her feelings clear where males belonged in the scheme of things; female (or female-identified) Hellhounds survive adolescence four times more often than their male counterparts, and only half of the surviving males make it past their first experience with a female in heat whether she's breeding or not.
(Watching a female Hellhound go into heat isn't something you forget, and boy, he wishes Lilith was still around, because he has questions, a lot of them.  In other words, he almost feels sorry for the fucker who pissed off Cas enough to send him in there.)
"Did he know what was happening to him?" Dean asks curiously.
"Of course; it was aware of everything," Cas answers in satisfaction,  "The instincts of male Hellhounds are impossible to resist, however, especially when exposed to a female in heat."  Dean grins, settling back. "I reverted it once Fido was successfully impregnated to discover how it responded to the experience to aid in replicating it with others.  When it had recovered--which took some time, admittedly--I tried to explain it should consider this duty superior to existence on a chain.  Curiously, it did not agree at all."
"Wait, what?"  It, not he: oh.  "You got one of them?"
Cas nods hopefully.  "I didn't think you'd mind."
Dean starts to laugh; he only wishes he'd thought of that.  "Not even a little.  Which one did you borrow?"
"It wished to replace you on your throne as well as in our bed," Cas answers casually, and Dean is consumed by a rush of sheer, mindless rage, as fresh now as the day it was dragged before him.  It didn't just want to fuck Cas; it didn't even really want the Throne; it wanted to keep Cas, to take Cas away from him.  Nothing he's done to it--and he's made an effort--has so much as touched that rage; there's no pleasure, no satisfaction, just anger every time he thinks of what he ripped out of its mind each and every time he has it; how it looked at Cas, what it wanted to do to him and still does.  It shows him everything it thinks, of it with Cas, things they couldn't possibly have done, that Cas would never, would never, would never….
"Where is it now?" he asks softly, aware Cas is watching him closely, but he can't concentrate enough to care why.
"I returned it, of course, at least until Fido goes into heat again.  She was very unhappy about that, however," Cas adds, resting his elbows on Dean's shoulders.  "She enjoyed its attentions very much; its abject submission to her was apparently very pleasing.  And unlike male Hellhounds, she didn't have to be careful with it at all."
Dean meets the blue eyes and makes an effort to keep his voice even. "When were you going to tell me about this?"
"When my work on it was complete, and Fido was ready, of course," Cas answers, sliding half off his lap before Dean can ask what the fuck.  "Which should be fairly soon.  I would not present you with a gift half-done."
"What--" he starts, then Cas snaps his fingers, and Dean blinks at the filthy, skeletal bundle of blood and wisps of flesh appearing on the platform in place of the rack, the entire area bathed in light.  It sits up, and with a gesture, Cas restores its condition to pristine.  Dean feels his hands clench into fists: yeah, he remembers this one.
"What--" it says, pushing itself up, then stops, staring at them, cringing, but when it sees Cas….
"None of that, Spado," Cas says, and the thoughts stop as if turned off. "Sit."
It obeys instantly, and staring at it, Dean puts it together.  "You--"
"I needed time to assure my alternations were successful and complete its training," Cas says, head tucked against his shoulder.  "You may speak, Spado. You may even use words."
"Please," it whines, starting to sob.  "Not this. Please, not--"
"Silence, Spado; your whining is boring.  Fido goes into heat soon, and you don’t want to disappoint her, do you?  I would not be pleased." It's horror is overwhelming, emanating in soothing waves through the Tower.  "While we wait, you should show your Master how well you can perform and your pleasure in pleasing me. It's the only thing you want to do, after all."  He snaps his fingers.  "You may begin."
The wide smile that spreads over its face is genuine as it starts to run, ass waving like it has an actual tail; it's like watching a youtube video of the happiest dog in the world, just--not actually a dog.  Dean drags his gaze away to look at Cas.  "You made it like it?"
"I am not so crude," Cas answers, rolling his eyes.  "The instincts are the only addition; it's pleasure is its own, and none of my own design.  Seeing how well it performed for me--and Fido--when thus, I chose not to interfere.  It did not appreciate my mercy, however; when I release it, it begged me to make it stop. I did consider it, but of all I could do to it, that one thing I could not; those were the terms, it seems, and even I can't break those."
Dean's eyes are drawn back to the platform as it plays a game of imaginary fetch; he can almost see the ball.  "Terms?  What terms?"
"When it came to me and offered itself to me and indeed, the very Throne itself, should I allow it to have me," Cas answers, and Dean looks at him, startled by the venomous edge.  "I then asked it if it would do anything to please me, and it said that it would, that nothing else would give it pleasure, for all of time." Cas tips his head to look at Dean.  "Then I gave it to you for your judgment and forgot all about it.  I apologize that I didn't inform you of its grandiose promises, but it's not as if it was memorable even in its presumption."
Dean shuts his mouth as Spado roll over with the same wide, inane grin.  It literally made it's own carrot and stick, all by itself.
"However, it does have the distinction of being the first I tested on its promise," Cas continues, blue eyes flickering to Dean before he straightens.  "I was only waiting until Fido was ready to go into heat again so you could see the finished product in full; you know I prefer not to show you what is only half-done.  Do you like it?"
"You…." He gives up, pulling Cas into a kiss, because seriously, what can you say to something like this?  Thanks just doesn't cut it.  "You knew," he realizes.  "How long--how did you--"
"I didn't, not until after Lucca's conception," he answers. "When I completed the reversion, it showed me its mind in hopes that would buy it mercy.  When I saw…." The blue eyes chill.  "I took it apart, of course, and found it all, and what it used against you in defiance of your correction and your will."
Dean lets out a slow breath.  "I knew it wasn't real," he says quietly. "I knew--but it didn't matter.  Not when I was with him.  It always felt real. Even after, it would stick, and I couldn't…."
"This is Hell; a lie holds as much power as the truth, if not more, provided one is strong enough to believe it utterly.  It was very strong; it was quite gifted, in fact, though nothing compared to me, and from me, it's ability could not be concealed, nor what it chose to do with it."  Cas's gaze flickers to Spado, adding softly, "I can almost forgive the stupidity of attempting to manipulate me--did you truly think you stand against me?-- but not the waste; to have such talent and not use it to serve your Master is unforgivable. To use it against him, however…."  The faint thrum beneath them isn't quite a warning, Dean realizes; it's reacting to the memory of that day.  Just the memory.
"Cas," he says mildly, and the blank blue eyes fix on him for an endless moment before Cas makes an effort and lets out a slow breath.  "Lost your temper?"
From Cas's faintly annoyed look, yeah, and if the Pit's reaction is anything to go by, it was pretty fucking apocalyptic, to say the least.  "I remade everything. I think."
Dean can't even work out what he's more pissed about now; that it was fucking with him and he didn't realize it, that it tried to fuck with Cas--so not okay--or that it upset Cas enough to make him lose control. And Dean missed all the fun.  "Show me later and I'll check," he says casually; sure, he could find out from the Pit, but Cas went above and beyond hiding it, and that deserves a reward.
"I knew it still displeased you, that was why I first chose it to service Fido, but until then, not why, nor why you never let me watch." Yeah, no; the idea of Cas even being in the same room, see what it-- "In retrospect," Cas says, making a face, "perhaps simulating infidelity was not my best idea."
"Fuck that, that was awesome," he protests immediately: come the fuck on.  "Payoff was totally worth it."
Cas smiles faintly.  "So decided." He leans closer with a shift of his hips that gets Dean's undivided attention.  "I thought to purge it entirely, but that would not give you the satisfaction it owes you for what it's done," he murmurs, lips brushing Dean's.  "Nor does it deserve such mercy.  Now, what you teach it, it will learn, and then it may begin to render payment on the infinite debt it has incurred for what it has done to you in its defiance of your will."
"Will it?" Dean says distractedly, then forgets what they were talking about when Cas kisses him, following Cas down onto the firm comfort of the couch, pulling back breathlessly to watch Cas stretch out lazily beneath him; he just never gets tired of watching that.  But-- "When does Fido go into heat?"
"Within the next three days," Cas answers, hooking a knee over his hip and drawing him down. "Why? She knows to come here.  Oh, I almost forgot: Spado, sit.  Your Master will be with you shortly."
Despite himself, Dean looks over to see Spado crouching at the edge of the platform, still grinning, eyes wide and focused on them, tongue out and panting gently.  "You want me to do it now?"
"I watched you teach them all, save this one," Cas answers huskily, and the hot arousal that's always there when he's with Cas flares to uncontrolled heat across every nerve, like all of Hell burns inside him.  "You brought them here and I would watch you take them apart, feeling the pleasure you took in every slice of your knife upon their bodies, in each piece of flesh you carved from their bones, in every scream you drew from them, and knowing that all you did was for me. I would taste their flesh and blood on your skin, proof that you wanted me and me alone, and I felt your pleasure when you moved inside me, knowing you had no rivals and never could, that I wanted only you.  It's pain and your pleasure in it you denied me and yourself as well; we will have it from it now.  And so will Spado."  He meets Dean's eyes and smiles.  "Discipline is not always punishment, and so it follows that punishment need not be limited to mere pain. Now it will know all of my pleasure comes from you alone, and to please me, so must its own pleasure, too."
Dean stills as Cas reach down and pull the knife from between them, touching his tongue to the base before trailing it up to the tip.
"What you show it now will be all it can imagine, every time it thinks of me," Cas murmurs. "I promise you, it will eagerly learn whatever you wish to teach.  And it will never, ever forget."
"I love you," Dean breathes, leaning down for another hard kiss, unable to pull away before tasting blood, then takes the knife and sits up to look at Spado.  "Revert it."
Lazily, Cas raises a hand and snaps his fingers, and Spado drops onto its ass, shaking itself before it sees Dean watching.  It's eyes widen, and this time, that hint of defiance inside the terror doesn't bother him at all; instead, he waits, watching it grow.  He wants all it can summon this time, it'll just make it better when he slowly starts to take it apart, along with each and every fucking lie.
"Three days," he murmurs, watching it force itself upright. It even tries to stands up, which makes Dean smile; this is gonna be amazing, he can already tell.  "I'll barely be getting started."
"Delay will only make Fido more eager," Cas answers, rolling onto his side in a sensual stretch and resting his head on one hand, and way more interesting than anything else in the room right now or pretty much ever.  "You are the Master of the Pit and your will is the only law.  For your pleasure, all else will wait."
"Then it can wait, too," Dean decides, twisting around to stretch out over Cas and taste his surprised smile.  "I got something way more important to do."
@@@@@@
