--Day 118--

"So you just pulled 'Ichabod' out of thin air?" Dean asks Alison dubiously as he follows her toward the city square, feeling dusty and awkward and like he should be a lot more impressive as the leader of  Kansas's only working army against Lucifer.  "What was the name of the town before, anyway?"
Alison gives him a patient look not unmixed with disappointment, followed by resignation that he's what she's got, so she's making the best of him.  He gets from her a lot.
"It was abandoned," she answers, nailing her cane in the dirt like she's imagining it's his head as she limps determinedly down the street like resting your sprained ankle is for losers.  "By the time we got here, the signs were history and most of the official buildings trashed in the newer part of town.  You're welcome to look for it," she adds, obviously doubting he'd recognize a city limits sign if he saw one.
Glancing at her, he thinks he gets now how she got past Joe at that first meeting in Harlin.  Poker is a bluffer's game, and a couple of hands was all he needed to know she wasn't just good at it; it was instinct.  Maybe five eight, late thirties on the outside, and so thin she just barely escaping gaunt (which goes for almost everyone he's seen), dark brown hair frames a thin, pale face, hazel eyes watching the world (him) critically from behind wire-rimmed glasses that have seen better days.  Even limping, her movements are abrupt, and the impression of harried impatience and vaguely distracted disapproval--those goddamn glasses--is almost perfect.  
As mayor of Ichabod (as in Crane?  He's scared to ask) as well as the leader of the trade alliance between the towns, Alison took it on herself to welcome the leader of the terrifying militia just up the road (give or take a few hours at one hundred; Dean loves roads these days like a lot) via beating the fuck out of him and Joe at poker at their first meeting.  Their relationship hasn't progressed much since then, which in fairness he can't blame on that, but he kind of wants to anyway.  At least that'd be an explanation for her vaguely antagonistic attitude, though noticeably she still thinks Joe is awesome (and also noticeably, seems disappointed Dean's the one visiting regularly instead of him. Not that he cares.  Much).
His second visit marked the official beginning of their tenure in Ichabod, at which time Amanda, Mark, and Kamal were formally introduced to the mayors and deputy mayors of the other towns as well as the working government of Ichabod: Alison and Claudia, the deputy mayor; the patrol leader, Manuel; Tony, who was in charge of town services; Dolores, a RN who headed up their medical personnel; Lanak, who was inventory and supply; Dina, head of all things agricultural (he thinks); and the town's council (many, many people), before everyone settled down to figure out how this would work in Ichabod as the guinea pig.
After approving the weapons transfer (he's now officially a weapons trafficker), the first shipment of food to Chitaqua (he may or may not have almost cried when Kamal showed him the refrigerated truck that carried the meat), and giving the towns the first part of the their wish list from James' supply run, he went to approve the preparation of the new training field.   Ichabod designated a large area outside the town that may or may not have once been a hay field, the posts for the new fence already in place and a storage trailer in place for their class materials (weapons, lots of 'em).  Leaving Amanda, Mark, and Kamal to their enthusiastic work with the residents, Dean spent the rest of those four days split between watching them teach the residents Dealing With Demons 101, walking through Ichabod's patrol routes with a cautious but approving Manuel, and carefully exploring the town, both the inhabited and uninhabited portions, as non-threateningly as possible.
After seeing the destruction in Kansas City and hearing about the other cities and larger towns in the state (and fucking Houston, like he could forget the leveling of a major metropolitan city anytime soon), he braced himself for sub-Chitaqua conditions and was pleasantly (read: enviously) surprised to see at least some places seemed to have survived relatively intact.  Not that there weren't signs of some serious shit going down here at some point before the residents found it, even with all the work they did over the last couple of years to get the least damaged parts livable.
The other thing that surprised him (less pleasantly) was the realization that there were worse things than being trapped behind the Kansas border when it closed; there was being here and not being a native of Kansas.  Dean wasn't lying when he told Cas that sometimes, he found it hard to forgive humans for their bullshit, and he really wishes that they'd stop finding new ways to make it harder.
Ichabod was settled by a group of contractors, both foreign and domestic, who were--of all fucking things--at a week-long business convention in Kansas City when the borders were closed.  Many of them didn't even find out about the quarantine of Kansas until their flights were abruptly canceled, the news shared over the speakers by equally shell-shocked airline employees who were told any plane that got airborne would be target practice for the military already patrolling the skies.  There were sixty-seven of them who left the airport together that day in loosely knit groups; a couple of weeks later, fifty-eight of them and forty others they picked up on the way settled in the deserted remains of the town they name Ichabod; today, eight-nine of the original settlers were still alive and grimly determined to stay that way.  
Between the day they settled and now, they were joined by other non-Kansas natives who managed to survive long enough to find them, usually after being rejected--sometimes at the point of a gun--from shelter in a variety of small Kansas towns that weren't interested in outsiders as well as refugees from the cities who had nowhere else to go.  
Out of state college students and professors; contractors on green card from dozens of different countries; workers whose lack of documentation was overlooked for the low, low price of less than minimum wage; migrant farmers on circuit through Kansas; a couple of vacationers and road-trippers; and a few people who were on layover between cities when domestic flights became a memory:  Ichabod was pretty much the only option if they wanted to survive, and it now housed a population of over a thousand and change.  Like Kamal, over three hundred of them aren't even US citizens, passports from India and China and Cameroon, Japan and Mexico and Costa Rica packed away as distant memories when their own countries, along with the rest of the world, chose to forget their existence.  The three times Dean's visited, he's heard no less than seven separate languages being used in the streets and fields by Ichabod's residents, and that's just the ones he recognized.
He can't help thinking about what Joe and his team said about Harlin and their initial reception.  Those military units might have been stationed in the cities, but that didn't mean that they never left them.  Kansas is an infected zone, the borders guarded by soldiers as well civilian border patrols, and the only law is martial, which in some ways meant none at all, but in others, maybe a little too much.  People are gonna be people and most of the time they're good at it, he knows that, but he's lived long enough to find himself looking at the women here and thinking how thirty miles in a military grade SUV isn't that far coming from Wichita.  
He's not stupid enough to ask, and the welcome they received here so far reassured him at least a little that if it happened, it probably didn't happen here.  There's no fucking way it didn't happen somewhere, though, and he's got a whole state of somewhere, half a fucking country of somewhere.
"Dean," Alison starts before they're interrupted by approaching shrieks, followed by a heavily accented, "Watch out!"
Bemused, Dean watches three enthusiastically screaming kids flash passed them and down the street, pursued by a fourth who he's pretty sure is the designated demon trying to steal their souls.  Two adults hurry by with frazzled expressions shouting in what he's pretty sure is Mandarin, throwing them apologetic expressions as they pass.  He didn't have the kind of childhood that came with playing Cowboys and Indians or Cops and Robbers, and it wasn't until Leah commented during their first tour of Ichabod that he even noticed what the kids were up to these days.  Glancing at Amanda, whose parents were both hunters and was raised by her mother with her two sisters on the road after her dad died on a job, he saw the same look on her face that he felt on his own: survival of the fittest shouldn't work like this.  
Peering down the road, he watches as more people emerge from Main Street's repaired buildings, some still faced in faded nineteenth century storefronts, those with children heading toward the town center where the daycare's located while others head toward their jobs or assignments or whatever people do here that kept the town running.  The old downtown Main Street, a half mile stretch of what used to be remodeled antique stores and art galleries and quaint mom and pop restaurants (great food), is now entirely residential; along with the two streets on either side and a few outlier, they hold the entire population of Ichabod with room to spare.
"You know, if you want to ask me something, it'd be easier if you actually did it," Alison says conversationally, giving him a single stern glance over the top of her glasses.  "What's bothering you?"
Dean fights not to glance back longingly at his jeep at the edge of the town--a whole quarter mile behind them--but to his relief, they reach the eastern boundary of the town center, two massive old-school trailers set end to end in solid concrete that stretches across most of the road.  Veering right, he follows Alison to the only entrance on this side and down the short, narrow corridor between the left of the second trailer and a heavily fortified three story former art gallery before emerging into the safest place in Ichabod, the town center, encompassing two city blocks and built when the entire population could fit in three half-repaired buildings, that now houses the town's daycare and school, administration, armory, infirmary, and supplies.
Alison heads toward the four story former antique store now administration building on the right side of the street, where someone sane left a couple of ragged armchairs and a broken down couch beneath the carefully repaired covered sidewalk built for the casual antiquer on the go.  Pointing him at one of the armchairs, she sinks down in the other with a sigh of relief, frowning down at her wrapped ankle as if it personally betrayed her by spraining itself.  
On the opposite side of what had been a charming two-lane street before the remaining asphalt was pulled up and concrete poured in its place (he can already hear Kamal questioning everyone he sees about how they did it to enable his rollerblading dreams at Chitaqua), the daycare slash school is a hub of early morning activity, kids appearing in twos and threes and sometimes sevens with parents in tow and left in the custody of the teenagers on child care duty.  
Proof he's suffering from Chitaqua Syndrome (not unlike Stockholm Syndrome, but weirder): the first time he saw the kids, he stopped short, almost shocked.  The echoes of that remain even now as he watches a blond man in dusty overalls pushing a repaired carriage to the edge of the sidewalk to hand off twins that can't be more than a few months old; two women with toddlers chat in rapid Spanish with the daycare's supervisor, Francisco, an elderly Hispanic guy who could be the proverbial wise sitcom grandpa right down to his silver-headed cane; and Eyong and Njoya, a middle aged couple from Cameroon he met briefly on his first and second visit, both once visiting math professors at KSU and now members of Ichabod's town council, dressed in practical cargo pants and work boots and leading a group of six, ages two to twelve, Eyong with a sleeping six-month old in his arms.
He can't stop the grin at the sight of Tony, a tall African-American petroleum engineer originally from Texas who's gotta be his sixties (not that Dean asked; he's not stupid), round, unlined face smiling broadly as he hugs one of the teenagers on daycare duty before the two of them work at disattaching a two year old blonde, face red with the beginnings of a mother of a tantrum, whose thin arms are locked around his neck.  Waving at her as she finally settles (hostilely) in the boy's arms, he crouches to urge the six year old clinging to his hand and glaring at him accusingly to go inside, her tiny frowning face surrounded with a riot of black braids.
"Don't let Tony fool you with the old man act," Alison leans over to murmur, sounding amused.  "He managed oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico and Libya before he retired.  He's in charge of town services for a reason."
He doesn't; anyone who willingly takes on two kids below the age of reason probably finds demons pretty fucking mundane in comparison, much less running herd over a whole bunch of civilians keeping them in electricity and running water.  
As another young woman herds two pre-adolescents she couldn’t possibly be old enough to have given birth to across the street, Dean wonders how many of these kids are on their second or even third set of parents, both those who lost them during the attacks in Ichabod, and those who'd come here without any at all.  Ichabod doesn't turn away anyone, and from what Dean can tell, they've spent the last two years being proactive about finding those who need just that.
Tony pauses to wave at the girls one last time before joining Eyong and Njoya on their way to the small group waiting for them by the western corridor, among whom Dean recognizes Neeraja, a thirty year old former programmer from Kolkata, India who lives in Alison's building, Min, a forty-something Chinese-American human resource specialist, and Dina, a short African-American woman in her late twenties who used to be the hippiest of hippy organic farmers (and still pretty much is; the colorful hemp shirt she's wearing under her jacket reminds him of Cas's guru wear) and now oversees their agricultural efforts.
Dean knows shit about farming, but he's learned this much: it's an all-year thing.  Even now, when the harvest's over, there's work in Ichabod's orchards and communal gardens as well as the fields they cultivate for trade, maintenance of the massive combines and threshers they learned to use by dint of sheer persistence, repairing tools and equipment, the care and feeding of livestock, and checking whatever's growing now for the town's consumption, among many, many other things he can't entirely remember (because Dina is both enthusiastic and talks really, really fast).  
Apocalypse or not, he reflects, people are people. It may be the end of the world tomorrow, but today, there are kids to feed and toilets to flush, food to get harvested or canned or jarred, and an electrical grid to keep running, jury-rigged to hell and back by Tony and Walter, a third year KSU electrical engineering student originally from Kentucky who got it stable with like, chewing gum and zip ties or something.  He tries hard not to think about the fact that when it comes to Apocalyptic living conditions, Ichabod's doing it better than Chitaqua is, but it's kind of hard to deny when the daycare has several working TVs playing every Disney movie ever and the high point of his own career as a shitty electrician was an entire week without random generator failure.
Watching a typical morning in Ichabod, the vivid contrast between the healthy looking kids and the too-thin adults, he wonders again what the hell they're doing.  He gets that Ichabod and the other towns are getting something out of this agreement--they agreed without reservation and from Joe's description, with enthusiasm--but he can't quite reconcile that Chitaqua's gonna be paid with the results of these people's backbreaking desperation to survive for doing what should be done for fucking free.  And help during planting and harvests, right, there's that.
As the number of arrivals trickle off and the remaining kids are herded inside, he starts, "You know, we don't--"
"--need to eat?" Jumping a little--and hating himself for it when he sees her raised eyebrows--he tries and fails to remember what he was gonna say, which gets him another goddamn patient look. "Joe warned me about this during your first visit after you got a look around the town.  He thought it would take another month orso, though, so guess where his next batch of Joe Beer is going?"
"How the hell does he find time to keep up production anyway?"  Dean glares in the general direction of the temporary training field south of town.  This deal sounded a hell of a lot better before he saw the too-thin residents whose work in the goddamn fields would be funding it, the kids in the daycare that depended what their parents could grow.  He can't even offer guaranteed protection, though the patrol that's in charge of this district is under orders to check in regularly, which is once a week, which is great if nothing happens six days before and after they arrive.  Amanda, Mark, and Kamal being here means word will get to either the patrol or Chitaqua fast--and Amanda's fucking terrifying, she's an army all by herself--but still.  That nothing's happening isn't the point; it will, and Dean's making a bet with all their lives that somehow, when it does, they can get here in time to protect them.  Which got him thinking.  "Alison--"
"What I'm not sure of," she continues, ignoring him, "is what part is bothering you.  Is it your side of the agreement or ours?"
Scratching uncomfortably at the back of his neck, he tries to decide how to answer that.  "Both."
"You don't have the people to protect us full time, I know."  She says it like it's a fact of life, and God knows for her it is and always has been.  Other than patrol of Wichita, Chitaqua rarely came this far south, and Ichabod's been taking care of themselves for a while now (and pretty goddamn well; Manuel knows his shit).  "Joe broke it down for us, exactly what you could offer, and kiddo, if you're smart, get yourself a more cut-throat negotiator one day."
"Should see what he gets out of the border guards," he answers, absently shifting his rifle to the ground between his feet and wrapping a hand around the barrel; he's still not used to carrying it, which may or may not mean Cas has a point.  "We get food, you get protection maybe, if we can get here in time."
"That's more than we had before."  She sighs, looking at him patiently over the rims of her glasses.  "You don't have the numbers to be everywhere, but you're gonna try, I know that.  That's why you're also teaching us how to protect ourselves better when you can't."
"You shouldn't have to," he answers bitterly.  Just surviving these days is a full time job; adding this on top of it….
"Don't think Lucifer cares too much about should," she says dryly.  "You don't think it's worth it, not to just know help will come, but that we're learning more about how to protect ourselves?"  Before he can answer that--she makes it sound a lot better than it actually is--she sits back in her chair with a loudly protesting squeal of springs.  "Why don't we skip ahead of the personal recriminations and you tell me--" 
Abruptly, she turns around, and following her gaze, Dean sees a woman at the eastern entrance looking toward them hopefully.  Getting ponderously to her feet--and it takes pretty much everything in him not to jump up and help her--she says, "Hold that thought.  I'll be right back."
As she hobbles away--she keeps that shit up, that sprain's not ever gonna heal--and starts a spirited discussion with the woman, Dean tries once again to figure her out.  It wasn't an accident she was casually having coffee on the porch this morning when he walked by her building on his way to the training field, and to give her credit, she didn't pretend it was, but as yet, she hasn't given him any idea why.  
He gets she probably still has reservations (he would in her position) and that as Chitaqua's leader he gets to be the focus of them; he even gets why she might be more comfortable with Joe and Amanda and the others by dint of three of them living here and having more time with Joe during both negotiations and after.  The thing is, what he's picking up isn't 'some reservations' but 'a lot of them and still growing', and he's not imagining it; all of them are about him and none extend to the people he stationed here.  
Conversation apparently done, Alison limps back, dust rising with every pound of her cane on the concrete before dropping heavily into the armchair, knocking her bad ankle into the leg with a belated grimace.  
"Amanda's been staying in my building," she starts, as if at some point he forgot about the living arrangements of those here (and Kamal and Mark are living on the eastern edge of Main Street in Rich's building, another member of the town's council, yeah, he remembers, thanks).  "She's in for dinner most nights, but we have coffee if she's running late--that seems to be a thing in Chitaqua, from what she says--and talk about how it's going." He fights not to think there was undue emphasis on the 'thing in Chitaqua' bit, because that's paranoid.  (A lot of people talk over coffee.  That's what coffee's for, other than helping you accept mornings exist).  "It's going great, which you already know, since you spend a lot of time watching her classes when you're here, and for more than the entertainment value of Dennis almost knocking himself out with a broom."  Her slight smile fades.  "How many of them do you want for Chitaqua?"
Neck prickling uncomfortably under her level gaze, he fights the urge to twitch.  "Alison…."
"That's where this is going, right?"  She tilts her head, eyes unreadable.  "This hiatus--it's not going to last much longer, is it?"
"We don't know what made the attacks stop," he answers, tightening his grip on the barrel of his rifle, palm inexplicably sticky with sweat despite the crisp autumn weather.  "But I'm pretty sure we're almost out of time, yeah."
"Not what I was talking about," she says deliberately.  "I mean before humanity realizes we're living in the epilogue to a war we already lost."
Dean's head snaps up.  "What?"
"Come on, Dean, I'm not an idiot, and I know how to turn on a radio," she answers acidly.  "Croatoan is a worldwide epidemic, and there's no cure, no vaccine, and no way to stop it; all this zoning crap is doing is maybe slowing it down.  Half the world doesn't know Lucifer's responsible, and most of the rest don't believe it if they do."
"If you believe that, why the hell did you accept our offer?"
"Survival," she answers succinctly.  "Just because it's gonna end soon doesn't mean it's over yet."
Despite himself, he feels himself start to smile.  "Cas likes saying that, too."
"Not surprising for an angel," she says, a faint flicker of humor softening the set expression.  "Not that I've met any to make a comparison, of course."
"The ways of Cas are mysterious, even to other angels," he answers easily, keeping his smile firmly in place.  "No explaining it.  How you knew he was an angel, though--that I'd like an explanation for."
Alison stills, hazel eyes widening in belated realization.  "Amanda--"
"--told you over coffee?  Bullshit."  Fighting back the spurt of guilt when Alison pales, eyes flickering to his gun, Dean put it together and wonders how the hell he could have been this stupid.  "You ever play craps?"
She blinks uncertainly, hand tightening reflexively (defensively?) on the knob of her cane.  "What?"
"I got a lesson in probability recently," he answers.  "Really should have paid more attention.  You shouldn't have beat me and Joe that much at poker that night.  I was cheating better than that, even if I was trying to make a good impression.  Psychic or impossibly lucky?"
Alison licks her lips. "Now I'm impressed."
"Psychic?"  Glancing at his gun, she swallows before nodding slowly.  "Have you been reading us?" 
"Not you," she says quickly.  "That night, I was reading Joe, yeah: that's why you kept losing.  He knows most of your cheats and watches for them."
"But you can everyone else?" She nods again.  "Just not me.  And I'm supposed to believe that?" 
"You're the only person I've met that I can't." She grimaces at his skeptical expression.  "You're--you're different, okay?  It's like--I don't know how to explain it."
Studying her, he tries to decide if she's sincere or just faking it really well.  The slip about Cas definitely surprised her, and blaming Amanda was a knee-jerk response, not a planned one; she had to know better than that. A psychic who wants to stay hidden doesn't make those kinds of mistakes often, and a good one would have been prepared for when it did happen.  
Nothing about her screams psychic engaged in manipulation for kicks and profit--though granted, she could be psychically manipulating him to believe just that--but paranoia is a survival trait here.  He might not notice, putting anything unusual to imagination, but Amanda and Mark are both hunters just like he is and live here full-time.  More than that, they're hunters who survived five years into the Apocalypse and were trained again at Chitaqua by a Fallen goddamn angel, and dealing with psychics was definitely part of the curriculum.  She might have been able to fuck with one of them, but not all three.
"Does anyone else know?" 
"A few," she answers cautiously.  "Neer, Claudia, Tony, Manuel--a few others."
"The other towns?"
"Only Danny."
This wasn't on his list of things he thought he'd have to deal with when it came to the towns, but considering, it shouldn't be a surprise. This was going way too well.  "Alison--"
"We all have secrets, Dean," she interrupts, hand white-knuckled around the head of her cane, tendons bulging in stark relief against the thin skin.  "You, of all people, should know that."
"This isn't," he says as calmly as he can, "just a secret."
"No, it's not," she agrees.  "I have reasons, probably some of the same ones you have for hiding that a Fallen angel was part of your militia."
"That's--"
"--different, right?  It always is." She looks at him bitterly. "Yeah, I've been reading your people, Dean; do I look stupid?  Three months ago, a militia camp up north we'd only heard about--not like you ever came around before--suddenly drops by Harlin to say hi and how's the Apocalypse going for you, had anything attacking you recently, and by the way, nice town, you seem to be doing well, see you later and call if you need anything."
He really, really needs to reread those reports again.  "Mel didn't say that."  
"I was paraphrasing," she says.  "Less than two months later, you people are driving by in military grade SUVs every week, armed to the teeth and waving at anyone you happen to see: very subtle, Mr. Winchester."
"We just set up the patrol districts," he argues, though yeah, that does look a little questionable now that he thinks about it.  "We hadn't been doing that before, it was new to them."
"And you decided now was a good time?  Right after the military vanishes from the cities--who you were working with, from what I understand--and we enter a period of unprecedented peace and quiet?" she asks.  "God knows what you were doing for food before, because it sure as hell wasn't traded on the border--oh wait, was that part of your deal with our martial law overlords?"
So useful information: one, he's gotta talk to Joe about seeing how much it would cost for the border staff to learn the meaning of 'discretion' (probably a lot); and two, she's not actually entirely wrong.  
"Then you send Joe and company to talk to us--"
"Must have been a surprise," Dean agrees, sitting back.  "I mean, that flat tire Harlin's patrol had was non-existent, but right when we usually show up, you just happened to stop to be sure? In the middle of the road?"
"We were curious," she bites out.  "If you were gonna keep stalking us, figured we might as well find out what you wanted."
"We weren't stalking--"
"And then Joe tells them that all he want to do was talk, no pressure though, let me show you how many weapons I usually wear while I remove them one by one--"
"You're holding voluntarily disarming against us now?" Dean interjects before he can stop himself.  "He didn't even tell me he was going to do that!"  Alison's eyes widen, and in retrospect, maybe he should have left out that last part, but whatever, now he's committed.  "Good to know, though: next town we talk to, we'll insist on bringing our rocket launchers to negotiations to show our good intentions. Because that's guaranteed to work."
Alison's eyes narrow.  "You have rocket launchers?"
"Read my mind and find out," he answers challengingly.  "If any of you actually thought we were gonna hold a gun to your head, you wouldn't have invited Joe to come to Harlin, armed or not.  And if we were gonna do that, I sure as fuck wouldn't have given you a month's warning in weekly drive-bys, Jesus."
She smiles at him, all teeth.  "Maybe you're just bad at your job."
"Inviting two members of the scary militia bent on extortion into town and give them snacks just in case there was any doubt you had food to steal: oh yeah, that's some genius there," he retorts, smiling back.  "I mean, why not show Joe and company where the most useful hostages below the age of ten were located--oh wait…"
"Fuck you, that was after I read Joe and Ana for half a goddamn day to make sure what they said matched what they thought!" she snaps.  "The only reason Joe even got a hearing with us was because Danny knew I'd find out what you really meant to do so we could be ready for it."  She sits back in her chair, hazel eyes hard.  "I'm not apologizing for using everything I have to keep us safe.  That's survival."
Yeah, he actually does get that.  "What you got from them told you we were telling the truth and you made the deal.  So what's your excuse for what you got out of Amanda's mind about Cas?"
"You mean the people who were going to be beating up my residents for educational purposes?" she asks with really unnecessary sarcasm.  "Amanda's great, don't get me wrong.  We have dinner or coffee, we talk, she tells me stories about Chitaqua and her life before she went there; I haven't laughed this much in years.  First day of class, though, and every day since, she gets up at dawn and she and Mark warm up by trying to kill each other for a couple of hours before their first students arrive, and they start showing them how to use everything in your standard arsenal."
Yeah, he called this one, and what Cas said about trust being tested.  He tries to remember how he felt the first time he watched Cas and Amanda sparring, strips out the experience with hunters (and angels), adds 'civilian programmer' into the equation, work out exactly where she is right now; they only got one chance to get this right.
"Amanda scares you?"  That, he doesn’t believe, not after watching them together.  Amanda's as transparent as glass, and if Alison's been reading her mind, she knows that, just like she has to know that Amanda would swallow a bullet before she'd hurt anyone given into her charge.
"No, of course not."  There's a brief hesitation.  "Are you--are you all that good?"
"No," he answers slowly, making an executive decision and setting his rifle against the wall on the far side of his chair (what Amanda, Mark, and Kamal don't see and therefore Cas won’t find out about won't hurt anyone, especially him).  Across the street from them right now is a whole goddamn building of screaming, shouting, running, playing reasons she might not be able to afford to act on faith, not after living here the last two and a half years and thirty minutes from Wichita, not after seeing the reality of what Chitaqua could do after learning the monsters weren't just real but that humans could still be worse.  "But probably still better than most of your patrol, yeah.  We have to be; we're hunters.  It's our job and that's how we've survived this long to keep doing it."  
"Fighting the good fight," she agrees cynically.  "Would have been nice to have you fighting around here the last couple of years.  I'm not saying I don't appreciate you offering now, and it's not like you owed us or anything, but why the change in policy?"
"I'm beginning to wonder about the psychic thing," Dean remarks.  "Are you sure you're not imagining it?"
She snorts.  "Chitaqua's leader, Dean Winchester himself, top of the list in every most wanted in the world, suddenly decides to save everyone and let's all be friends now?"
God, he almost forgot about that.  "They announce that on the radio?  How'd I miss that between commercials for air freshener and the 2015 Ford Blitz coming out of Detroit next year, which by the way, is still on fire?"
Alison's eyes narrow.  "You're saying they're lying about you being responsible for Croatoan?" 
"You know the American military was willing to deal with me, you can read my people's minds--don't pretend you didn't spend some quality time asking the right questions to find out what they thought about me--not to mention the border guards', but no, the radio, which forgets half the goddamn country exists on a daily basis, is your go-to for objective reporting?" he asks incredulously. "Please tell me you're not the one who negotiates at the border, because holy shit, tuna has not gone up to ten dollars a can no matter what they've been telling you.  Do we need to talk about Santa Claus next?"
From the way she's gripping that cane right now, he's pretty sure she's counting to ten, each number accompanied with a visual of slamming it into his head.
"Everything you could get from the border about us, including that we were working for the military, should tell you our worst sins in Kansas were of omission, not commission," he continues.  "You know I'm wanted for--everything, probably--but you knew that before you agreed to the deal. I'm leading a militia that scares you, which is why you were reading the people I assigned here, I get that, that's survival.  You're still doing it, though, unless you're gonna tell me finding out about Cas isn't pretty recent and today's the day you just happened to slip up."  He'll give her this much; she doesn't even try to deny it.  "Tell me how the hell I'm supposed to trust you?"
"I wouldn't have to keep reading them," she answers flatly, "if I hadn't gotten five towns to agree to the deal with Chitaqua, offered my town up as the testing ground, and only then met Chitaqua's leader, the most wanted man in the world, and found out he was the one person I couldn’t read and as it turns out, the one I most needed to.  I know what they believe you're doing, but your state patrol schedule isn't the only thing that's new."
"What do you--"
"I mean you."
He sucks in a breath.
"A few months ago, you had near-death experience in Kansas City and were MIA two weeks; they thought you might be dead," she recites tonelessly.  "You came back, though, but you came back a whole new person."  Frozen, Dean tries to think, chest tight; if nothing else, he's pretty sure she wasn't lying about reading his mind, or she'd know right now the reason for that. "Great story, they sure as hell bought it, but real life isn't a Hollywood blockbuster with a happy ending. So you tell me, Dean Winchester; how the fuck am I supposed to trust you when your own soldiers' only explanation is the plot of a shitty romcom?"
He hopes to God he looks calmer than he feels. "People change."
"Yeah, they do," she agrees. "But not as much as you did, and I'm not one of your soldiers, Dean.  All the fairy tales that I've learned are true I also learned weren't made by Disney."
Jesus.  "Do you want us to leave?"
"And if this hiatus ends and we need help?"
"We'll be here the minute you call," he answers steadily, meeting her eyes.  "Send someone to get us, I mean, whatever.  You want us to leave, I can give the order now and we're gone before lunch, deal over.  We won't come back, not unless you ask us to."
She looks away, shoulders slumping.  "I don't want you to leave, no.  It's just--" She gestures at him.  "I don't know what to do with you."
"Because you can't read me."  So she read his soldiers as much as she could, trying to find something to tell her she could trust him, and learned all new reasons she shouldn't.  "Do you know why?"
"I thought it was a fluke at first," she admits.  "Or the number of people around.  Some people are harder to read until they relax or start concentrating on something--"
"--like poker," he finishes for her, reluctantly impressed at her rueful nod.  "And you got nothing.  Besides most of my stakes that night."
She nods.  "It was like…I'm not sure."
He raises an eyebrow.  "Like….?"
"Like--" She grimaces.  "Like I slide right over you and go somewhere else."
"Slide."  And he almost thought this couldn't get weirder: why does he keep doing that?  "To where?"
The hazel eyes unfocus.  "A box," she murmurs dreamily.  "Bigger than it looks, smaller than what it holds, and it holds everything.  What goes in there is never coming out again."  He only realizes he's started shaking when he almost bites his tongue.  "It's cold in there." Abruptly, she blinks, the distant look dissolving into confusion cut with frustration.  "Sorry, that's the best I can do.  I got the feeling getting closer was a bad idea.  I'm not very good at this yet."
He nods, not trusting his voice quite yet.
"When--when I found out Castiel was a Fallen angel…." She hesitates, licking her lips.  "I wondered if maybe it had something to do with him."
"That's nothing like him."  Dean pauses at the thready sound of his own voice and swallows hard.  "He hates being cold, I mean.  Sleeps with three blankets and a couple of pairs of socks.   Why would--what makes you think it has something to do with him?"
"You'd know more about his sock habits than anyone, I guess."  She raises an eyebrow at his expression, cautiously amused.  "I like your Amanda.  She's told me a lot about Chitaqua."  They have coffee and dinner and long talks about how things are going, right, but--oh.
"She told you about me and Cas?  Like, with words?"
Alison's expression visibly cools.  "Was she not supposed to talk about that?  Another secret?"
Disney, fairy-tales, happy endings…Alison said romcom: holy shit, his militia really thinks the explanation was a near-death experience and true fucking love.  With Cas.
"No, nothing like that," he answers, wondering why Amanda would decide to bring that up.  It wasn't casual; she knows gossip and how to use it---with terrifying results--so everything she says about Chitaqua is gonna go toward using it to build up trust with the town and especially with Alison as its mayor.  "I just realized how many embarrassing stories she's got to share with a whole town of new people.  Luckily, the best ones are about Cas, and there are a lot, so that should take a while.  By the way, do you know what a Maharishi is?"
Alison blinks, startled.  "Uh, no.  Why?"
"The ways of Cas are mysterious and weird."  Why the hell couldn't Amanda think something useful, like what the hell that is, along with talking about her leader's relationship status, anyway?  Because that's what's important  here. "It's not a secret, no.  Just…."
"New?" she offers carefully.  "She mentioned something like that."
Yeah, new,  whole new person: one near-death-by-Lucifer experience and the love of a (good?) man, and he's patrolling the state, making deals with the locals, banging his ex-angel, ex-junkie best friend, and acquiring said as his second in command.  It's not like he watches romcoms or anything, but he's gonna say if one of them had that kind of plot, he's pretty sure he'd have seen it because Sam would have a copy and make him watch it for progressive something something reasons. (And because Sam has a not secret at all thing for happy endings, not that Dean can blame him; God knows their lives didn't show any sign of that happening, ever.)
"You could say that," he agrees.  "In so many ways.  Some I'm pretty sure we invented."  And time to get back to the subject, which isn't his gossip-based life-changing epic romance with Cas.  "So you think Cas is why you can't read me?"
"I'm saying the first and only person I can't read happens to be involved with a Fallen angel," she answers, cocking her head. "Could be a coincidence."
Could be, but since she doesn't believe it is, he's pretty sure she's got more to go on than correlation equaling causation, and he'd really like to know what it is.
"Why don't you want to cancel the deal?" he asks instead, not surprised at all by the flash of relief when he doesn't question her further.  "If you can't trust me--"
"That's the problem," she interrupts, hand loosening on her cane, and half turning, she places it against the wall, absently flexing her fingers as she looks at him.  "When I met you, I believed you when you told me what you intended to do for us, even if I couldn't read it out of you."
"And now you don't?"  Dean tries to think of something he might have done to worry her and comes up blank. He doesn't really do much, but that's because there's not much to do and not because Amanda, Mark, and Kamal all write reports for Cas, and the Eldritch Horror supply is getting suspiciously low.  "What did I do?"
"Nothing," she answers impatiently. "Look, I thought maybe talking to you today--"
"You mean telling me how I'm an international fugitive and secretly planning to conquer your town or kidnap your people for Chitaqua or something was supposed to help?" he asks, borrowing Cas's exact tone of puzzled curiosity, perfected over the years at Chitaqua for maximum sarcastic potential.  "I believe you can't read my mind now, Jesus Christ.  What the hell?"
"I didn't say that."
"I was paraphrasing."
She glares at him.  "You're the most wanted person in the world, you worked for the military--"
"Stopping Croatoan in the cities," he interrupts, "and fighting things that the military didn't even believe existed, much less how to fight, nothing else. Border guards had to have mentioned that, considering they told you everything else, including our regular shopping  list.  Hell, ask Amanda and read her mind when you do; either way, the answer will be the same."
From her expression, she does know that but doesn't want to admit it.  "--and your militia is terrifying even when they're playing normal, which by the way, maybe you should work on that?"  He doesn't dignify that with a response, mostly because it's probably true.  "I believed you anyway. I still do, and I don't know why."
Huh.  "Am I supposed to apologize?"  From her glare, he feels like maybe he should, though 'being inexplicably trustworthy' is a new one.
"I thought after talking to you, maybe getting to know you a little better, at least I'd have some plausible after the fact excuse for it," she answers reluctantly.
"How am I doing?"
"Not too bad."  She sighs, looking at him resentfully.  "Future reference: you ever want to try the sociopathic solider angle, make sure no kids are around or no one's gonna buy it.  Or volunteer to watch a class under five without a bet to justify it."
"I could have been luring you into a sense of complacency."  She rolls her eyes.  "It's possible."
"Yeah, I tried that one," she says glumly. "Even I didn't buy it, not with that age group."
Dean waits for her to add something to that, then gives up.  "So…."
"So it looks like we're stuck with each other," she sighs with a real lack of enthusiasm, adding morosely, "And hope for the best, I guess."
"Thanks," he says, infusing his voice with all the sincerity in the world.  "Glad we got that out of the way."
She starts to say something, then stops, hazel eyes searching.  "Your Castiel, he was an angel?  Wings, halo, the whole nine yards?"
"I don't think he had a halo."  He should ask Cas about that one day; either way, his reaction will be priceless.  "Wings, Grace, soldier in the Host, yeah.  Why?"  Her conflicted expression isn't encouraging and he wants to add something about glass houses and secret psychics throwing stones, but the words freeze on his tongue; once, just once, he wants humanity not to disappoint him.  "Does that bother you?"
"No," she answers, shaking her head.  "I get secrets, Dean.  It's not that: the opposite, actually."
He waits, but she just sits there, being cryptic and annoying.  "Anytime you're ready."
"I'm new at this," she blurts out and closes her eyes with a pained expression.  "Really new."
"New at…."
"Oh, for--" She glares at him.  "This.  Being a psychic."  Before he can think of a response--I had no idea, sorry about that, congratulations?, she continues. "At first, I thought I was going crazy.  Then T--I got confirmation that it was real, what I was doing."
"Jesus, that must have sucked," he says without thinking, but the surprised expression on Alison's face tells him that for the first time since he met her, he might have actually said the right thing.  Pam and Missouri were born doing what they could do, but Sam's powers came a lot later, and he never made the mistake of assuming just because Sam was willing to use them meant he liked them or what they did to him.  Looking at Alison now, he can see the same resigned strain on her face he sometimes saw on Sam's before he learned to hide it better; like a lot of things in life, sometimes it looks a lot better on paper. "I'm sorry."
She blinks slowly, and just like that, the antagonism drains away.  "Thanks."
"When'd it start?" 
"About three--almost four months ago now."  Dean stills. "When the attacks stopped--early August, I think, if my calendar's right.  You and Amanda and Mark--you were hunters, right?  Before all this?"  He manages to nod.  "Amanda told me about psychics she'd met on some of her jobs.  She didn't seem surprised that I was interested in them, but she couldn't tell me much, either."
"I've met a few," he says slowly, thinking of Sam, of Missouri and Pamela, of the others he sometimes worked with and sometimes had to work against, but his mind keeps circling back to the timing: early August.  When the attacks stopped.  When Dean Winchester had his near death experience and returned to Chitaqua a whole new goddamn person.  "I don't know much, though--"
"Would Castiel?" she interrupts, a thread of desperation in her voice.  "Angel, I thought maybe--he might know something about what happened to me and why."
A way to make it stop, he interprets effortlessly; if only anything in life was that easy.  "Maybe," he temporizes.  "I can talk to him about the uh, new psychic thing, see what he thinks."
"Could you--" She stops short, looking uncomfortable. "Do you think he'd come here so I could talk to him?"
Yeah, that might be a problem. "Uh--"
"It's not just--I have dreams, and sometimes, they happen."  She looks away, staring down at her hands.  "Sometimes they don't, and sometimes they're just dreams, but--I don't know how to explain.  I didn't think about it if I could help it, to be honest."
Clairvoyance, too: what the hell, Apocalypse?  "When you became a psychic?"
"All my life," she corrects him nervously, watching his expression for disbelief and relaxing when she doesn't find it.  "But I didn't--before, I could pretend…"  She stops, taking a deep breath. "I was in Kansas City at the airport when they made the announcement that Kansas was zoned.  They let us stay the night--not that they cared, everyone was getting ready for a border run--and that night, I dreamed…." She swallows, hands starting to shake before she locks them together in her lap.  "When I woke up, I couldn't remember exactly what--but I knew we couldn't risk the border.  Not if we wanted to survive."
"No details?"
"Neer asked me that when I was done throwing up," she answers, a flicker of reluctant amusement in her voice.  "Whatever I saw--let's say I'm glad I don't remember it."  After a long moment, she shakes her head, looking at him with haunted eyes, and yeah, he's glad, too.  It wouldn't take any effort at all to imagine what went down here after what Cas told him about California.  "I convinced my colleagues and some of the others there not to even try, that we'd find somewhere here to wait it out, somewhere safe."
"Ichabod."  She nods.  "You dreamed about that, too?"
"I think so," she answers, frowning uncertainly.  "No details, remember?  More a feeling than anything, that there was somewhere safe, and all we had to do is find it. It was strong, though, and I believed it.  It took a couple of weeks, but when we got here, I knew this was where we were supposed to be.  Not that we had a lot of choice." He can see the memory of those two weeks in her eyes, finding out just how many places weren't safe for them, the way humans could be the pettiest kind of monster.  "It wasn't like anyone else was here to tell us we couldn't have it, so we took it."
"Ichabod."  Now he gets it.  "'The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God is taken.' First book of Samuel. " Her mouth falls open, and really, he never gets tired of that.  "Kid was barely born and already lost his parents, his family, even God was gone because Israel lost the ark.  Sucked to be him."
She stares at him wordlessly.
"Dangers of your partner being an ex-angel," he explains, remembering grimly pouring through goddamn King James word by goddamn word after the fever, because the ways of Cas are mysterious, weird, and apparently attracted to lyrical Biblical translations when making very elaborate jokes via Enochian symbols.  Jokes that may or may not have ended up permanently tattooed on Dean's body if Chuck hadn't intervened that night, which means he may actually owe Chuck for outing him to the camp at this point and fuck his life so very hard.  Also, lesson fucking learned.  "Let's say forewarned is forearmed when it comes to Cas's sense of humor.  Who came up with it? You?"
"Tony," she tells him.  "I thought naming the town after a story involving a headless horseman was weird enough, but his explanation proved me wrong."  Her mouth twitches.  "Can't say it didn't fit, though."
"No shit." He fights down the unexpected spurt of guilt for not being here for them.  He didn't even exist in this world then, and even if he had, he's not sure what he could have done, but he would have thought of something, that much he's sure of.
"Anyway, the dream thing has happened a few more times since we got here," she continues after a brief silence.  "No details, of course, but knowing I had to do something to prevent--whatever it was I dreamed from coming true." She gives him a wry look.  "Nothing quite as motivating as trying to prevent dreams you know you don’t want to remember from happening to make you pay attention to everything."
"I bet." He wishes, suddenly and futilely, that he could tell her about Sam; the visions that haunted him, the ones that they tried to change.  That they'd failed sometimes doesn't mean that they ever stopped trying.  "What about when you became a psychic?  Any advanced dream-warning there?"
"Not exactly."  She tilts her head, looking baffled.  "It'd been a bad day, the fields were acting--I mean…." She trails off, darting an unreadable look at him.  "Something was wrong that day, everyone felt it, not just me. I'd been having problems sleeping for a couple of weeks anyway--just elected, the fuckers didn't even tell me my name was up until it half the goddamn votes were counted."
Dean barely stops himself from laughing out loud at her disgruntled expression.
"What?" she asks suspiciously.
"Nothing."  He quickly composes his expression into something closer to sympathetic.  "Just--at least you knew ahead of time."  That doesn't seem to help.  "I'll tell you later.  So what happened?"
"Fell asleep in my new office trying to work out how the hell Tony kept from going insane the last couple of years and getting why he resigned," she answers, still suspicious but letting it go for now.  "I woke up and--I don't know how to put it."
He nods encouragingly as her frown deepens.
"You ever wake up thinking you'd forgotten something--maybe a birthday or, I don't know, if the season premiere was the night before and you missed it--but you can't remember what it was?"  He nods again.  "That, except the opposite; whatever it was, it happened right on time and I didn't miss it, so I should go back to sleep, it was fine."  
He has no problem at all interpreting exactly what might have been happening at that moment in Kansas City.  "Huh.  And you realized you were psychic?"
"No, I finished up my paperwork and went to bed," she says slowly, like she's not sure he's paying attention. "When I woke up the next morning to about a thousand people talking in my head, then I suspected something else was going on."
He's glad he can't actually imagine what that must have been like; on a guess, 'sucked' is probably an understatement.
"Anyway, since that happened, my dreams have been a lot more--weird," she decides, going for understatement of the year with a vengeance.  "Which makes the ones that aren't just dreams hard to miss."
The way she doesn't quite look at him may be a clue about the content of one of them.  "About?"
"Well," she starts.  "The week to the day before your Joe showed up to see if we'd negotiate, I woke up screaming."
Yeah, that's--even worse than he thought.  "Huh."
"And when I got Danny's message to come to Harlin…." She trails off, looking conflicted.
"Feeling?"
"Barely remembered to stop and grab my shoes before going for the nearest truck," she confirms.  "Manuel saw me running to the garage--carrying my shoes--and stood in front of the jeep until I agreed to let him and Hans come with me."  She bites her lip.  "And unlock the doors so they could get in."
"And you didn't tell them to shoot Joe and Ana and hide their bodies?"  She looks at him incredulously. "Thanks for not doing that, by the way."
"We don't shoot people for giving me shitty dreams."  From her expression, though, she kind of wishes now that she could.  "When I met Joe in Harlin, I knew what I decided would also decide if I'd find out what I dreamed that night by having to live it."
"No pressure, then."  She shrugs.  "And fucking with Joe for four days was just business and not revenge for giving you shitty dreams, right?"
The hazel eyes widen before she abruptly starts to laugh, looking surprised at herself.  "He told you about that?"
"Yeah, executive secretary of the Apocalypse, and thanks for giving Joe crisis of confidence." That sets her off again, and he watches as weeks--maybe months--of stress melt away. "I gotta know, what were you typing on that laptop anyway? It wasn't just notes."
"How many times 'Dean says', 'Dean thinks', and 'Dean insert word here' came out of his mouth," she admits to his horror.  "Compared to how many times he just thought it: me, Claudia, and Manuel had a running bet." He feels his cheeks heat in what fucking isn't a flush, but for some reason, she bursts into laughter again with no sign of stopping anytime soon.  So this is going well: definitely better than hostility.  He thinks.  
Finally, she sits back, wiping the tears from her eyes, but the faint smile remains.  "Joe, Amanda, the others I met--people may be able to hide what they are, even from the people closest to them, but there's always a slip somewhere, even if no one wants to admit it.  They believe in you.  Not a single slip."
"Since I came back from Kansas City as a whole new person."  Alison inclines her head.  "Because now you believe in shitty Disney movies?"
"I probably should have mentioned I used to own every Disney movie ever released."
Seriously, what the hell?  "So you think you made the right decision?"
"I'm still in the dark about my worst nightmare, so there's that," she admits a little dryly.  "But yeah, I think I did."
"That's--good."  It's really time he went back to check on Amanda and Mark, show he's paying attention and they're doing a good job, important leader shit.  He starts to get to his feet in preparation for pretending this didn't happen so he won't have to think about reliving it when he tells Cas about it.  "So anything else?"
"Actually, yeah."
God, he knows better than to ever ask that question.  Dropping into the chair, he sighs.  "Hit me."
She raises an eyebrow.  "When I met you the first time--this was just a feeling."
He already hates it, hates it.  "When you met me?"
"I would have told you then, but I don’t know if I mentioned this, but when we met--"
"--you couldn't read my mind and beat the shit out of me at poker to prove it," he finishes for her, and her eyebrow--impossibly--climbs higher.  "And I didn't know you were psychic, so wanted to avoid a really awkward conversation, fine."
She nods, obviously waiting for something, but after this conversation, if she thinks he's up to any more deduction, fuck her.  
"What?  You couldn't tell me because without reading my mind, you also couldn't tell how I'd react to you being a psychic, obviously, yeah."  Then--seriously, how is her eyebrow doing that--he gets it.  "You were going to tell me you were psychic that night?" She nods in exaggerated affirmation, which maybe he deserves, but whatever, he's got this.  "When did you find out what Cas was, anyway?"
"Last night."  Which is why she was waiting for him this morning.  The leader of Chitaqua was a lot less intimidating with his own Fallen-angel shaped secret.  "Something you said made Amanda wonder if you'd told Cas that he was your second in command yet?" He laughs before he can stop himself, and Alison grins.  "And something about sleeping on the couch as an alternative to smiting, and that being the reason you came back for another visit so soon after the last one."
"Our couch is fantastic, not that I'm sleeping on it or anything," he protests.  "He knows, yeah, but everyone's still pretending they don't so he doesn't get spooked.  It works."
"I'll take your word for it."  She bites her lip.  "You have no reason to believe me, but I don't--like doing this. Knowing what people think only sounds good until you have to actually hear it."  That, he believes.  "I figured a hunter who lives with a Fallen angel can't be too fazed by a psychic."
There's that, yeah. "What are you supposed to tell me?"
"It's--a feeling, like I said," she answers with a moue of annoyance.  "We need to be ready.  I don't know how long we have, but it'll be enough.  Not by much, but somehow, it's gonna be enough."  She hesitates for a moment.  "And something about maybe."
He waits, but as Alison's expression changes to impatience, he realizes she's done.  "Maybe what?"
"How the hell would I know?  I told you, I'm new at this, okay?"  He holds up his hands, but honestly.  "What that is, I don't know, but you coming here--you being here--what you're doing, that's part of it.  Now you tell me what you're thinking--since I can't find out for myself--because I think this is how we'll make that happen."
"About our deal with you?"
She cocks her head, frowning.  "The look on your face when I mentioned recruitment.  Did you change your mind about that?"
"No."  More rethinking how to do it after three weeks with them and realizing how much went into just survival.  Everyone in Ichabod worked--even the daycare is also the town school where the teenagers take shifts between classes with the younger kids--and if they have leisure time, it's spent desperately learning needed skills, from Dolores' evening classes trying to shove years of nursing school into a few hours a day and Walter spending his nights finishing his senior year in engineering with a couple of other residents under Tony's benign fist to Dina and her leads learning everything that has to do with farming and livestock, because mistakes didn't mean a run to the grocery store but potential starvation.
The only real comfort he's getting out of this deal is Amanda confirming that they're definitely lowering the workload on Manuel and his patrol leads. Because all the able-bodied adults who can take regular patrol shifts, all the residents have drills twice a week, and neither Manuel or his leads were natural teachers or had the time to learn ("There's a reason people who want to teach generally have to learn how to do it.  A plan also helps a lot," Amanda told him ruefully.  "I didn't know how much Cas taught me about method until I started actually doing it.").  
"So let's start there," she says firmly.  "You want an army."
"I have an army," he protests, and she raises an eyebrow.  "It's just a small army."
"So making it bigger, that's where this is going?  To fight Lucifer."
"Not just that, though yeah, that's definitely on the agenda."  Gazing at her, he decides to just tell her.  "Lucifer doesn't need to step on the field to win this war; right now, all he's got to do is wait until there's no one left who can fight."
"The infected zones are a buffet for things I didn't even know existed before we started fighting them." She licks her lips nervously.  "You're a hunter; it wasn't always like this and there were just so many of you that no one noticed?"
Dean thinks about this Dean's notebook; in one way, the minimalism in reporting worked really well.  When your entries were sometimes three lines or less, the sheer number of missions packed into every goddamn page--not even including what the patrols dealt with--made it painfully clear in only a couple of pages how much the scale's changed.  Add in Cas's notebooks, remember this Dean's goal-oriented approach to hunting, multiply by a conservative ten, and it's not just 'a lot'. 
"No, this is much worse."  Maybe worse than it's been since humanity got the numbers not to just fight back, but win on their own.  "Fighting Lucifer, great idea, but we gotta survive long enough to do it."
"Can we win?" she asks quietly.  "Don't sugarcoat it; I don't need to read your mind to know if you're lying to me."
He can feel the weight of that sharp hazel gaze, the lives of everyone in this town, this state, this world.  Is hope better than disappointment, how the hell can he believe he'll beat goddamn Lucifer when he can't even imagine how he's supposed to fight him, when the world's half-way to Hell--possibly literally--and destroying itself as much as Croatoan and the monsters are.  He has no idea what the hell he's doing; the only thing in a hunter's job description is how to fight, and that didn't cover this kind of war.
"We need more people."  He sees her nod.  "You know we plan to recruit eventually, but the training--or so the resident expert assures me--takes three months."
"So you want to take some of my people to Chitaqua to train them."
"No."  He nudges the newborn thought out to see what it looks like as a whole.  "You need everyone you have, I get that.  So this first group, we could train them here."
"What?"
"Train them here," he says, turning it over in his mind and seeing all new ways this is an awesome idea.  What Cas told Joe about how they appear to other people and Alison confirmed: this might help with that, too.  "We really don't have a lot of space for more people right now at Chitaqua, anyway.  We're working on that, but no reason to wait.  If they're trained here, you can work with Amanda on how to work in their regular duties with training."
"Amanda will be training them?" Alison asks with a flicker of barely-hidden relief.
"She learned from Cas, and he says she can do it.  I can assign a team to Kamal here temporarily to help her out and still keep up our part of the agreement," he continues.  "That means we can guarantee help to you and the rest of the trade alliance, no six to twelve hour wait depending on where the patrol is."  And if it's something that needs more people, Amanda and the team will be able to help them hold out until he can send more people from Chitaqua.  "Good so far?"
"Do you have enough teams to do that?"
"I'll make it work," Dean says firmly, deciding to let Cas tell him how they're gonna do that.  "You'll lose some labor you need, I get that, but in return for being host, you can rotate them in with your patrols, put 'em on thresher duty or watching kids, whatever you need when they're not on duty.  Keep 'em in conditioning."  
"And when they're done training, they'll go to Chitaqua?"
Yeah, that's part trickier; they still have a real lack of cabins without electricity.  And roofs.  "When we have enough people, we could find an abandoned town nearby and set up shop," he answers lightly.  "Happen to know of any?"
"I could make you a list," she offers.  "Now, are you going to answer my question?  Can we win?"
"I'm answering your question," he says, meeting the skeptical hazel eyes without hesitation.  "Yes, I think we can win.  So how about helping me figure out how to do it?"
She doesn't answer for long enough to make him wonder if he already fucked up any chance of getting anywhere here.  Before he steps on the goddamn field, though, any other answer would be a lie.
"How many do you want?"
Oh God, she wants a number.  "Ten?"
"You think ten is enough to make a difference?"
"One is enough to make a difference, so ten times that sounds pretty good to me."  Her expression doesn't tell him anything.  "Look, talk it over with Joe--"
"I think I need his boss for this one," she interrupts before getting to her feet, teeth clenched together when she puts too much weight on her bad ankle and grabbing her cane with a sigh of relief.  Jumping up, Dean gets a hand under her elbow before he can stop himself, holding his breath until she's straightens.  To his surprise, she doesn't pull away this time.  "Where's your jeep?"
"Uh, west end of Main."  Belatedly, he grabs his rifle and swings it awkwardly over his shoulder, trying not to imagine Cas's expression if he'd seen him do that.  "Why--"
"I need a ride to the training field.  Amanda and Mark are teaching everyone how to not shoot themselves with a semi-automatic, if the schedule she gave me is any indication.  We said you could use that land because it was far enough away to risk having firearms easily available without worrying about tiny hands getting hold of them," she says as they emerge from the town center and into the street.  "I can work out living accommodations for the team you're assigning here tonight, so right now, we'll start with what else you need other than the trailer Amanda's using as an arsenal."
He nods agreement.
"We're one to two hours from the other communities and you know they're still not sure about how this will work," she tells him, giving him a sharp look.
"I know," he answers.  "Hopefully, seeing how it works out with you, they'll--"
"We're the guinea pig," she interrupts smoothly, like he wasn't saying just that.  "They'll come around eventually, but we don't have that kind of time, so new plan: the original deal?  Let's make one change; instead of you going to them when they're ready, they'll just come here."
"Here?" he asks intelligently.
"Some already are, by the way," she continues.  "I took Amanda with me when I visited Harlin and Noak, and she made a good impression, invited a few to come and join the classes now.  They're coming already, so let's just make it official.  I'll meet with our trade partners and offer to host permanently and work out how many they can send each that Amanda and Mark can handle now.   They can relearn the art of commuting, or they can live here for the couple of weeks and we'll host them, freely given." She smiles up at him.  "We all throw bread on the water these days; usually, we get it back when we need it.  There'll be conditions, of course--"
"What are you doing?" he interrupts.
"I'm answering your question," she answers strongly, tipping her head back to look him straight in the eye.  "How we're gonna win.  Gotta start sometime, so might as well be now."
He nods slowly.
"Unlike everyone else you've met in this state, I didn't have to go on faith about your good intentions; I read it out of Joe's mind and everyone else's I met from Chitaqua since.  You were my big problem, and now that it's solved…" She shrugs.  "We don't have time to fuck around here, Dean.  It's already been two years since this started."
He takes a breath, feeling a little lightheaded, and it's only the tight grip of Alison's hand on his arm that keeps him focused.  "'We need to be ready.'"
"It's gonna be enough," she agrees, mouth quirking.  "I don't know about you, but when my clairvoyance offers me fairly unambiguous advice, I err on the side of taking it.  Not like it happens often enough to not appreciate it when it does. "
Looking at her, he sees his own hope reflected back at him.  And disbelief, because seriously, neither of them work up this morning expecting to negotiate a whole new plan here. The only thing on his morning agenda was convincing Connie and Grant to take an early lunch because they looked hungry (read: go make out for an extra half-hour instead of staring at each other longingly over crayons and spilled milk) and help Dwayne and Sissy finish that Lego castle they were working on yesterday.
"Conditions," he hears himself say, relieved to find out he can still talk, and from the look on Alison's face, she was kind of out of words, too.
"Conditions," she agrees gratefully.  "I want Ichabod to have limited access to the training field when you start training our recruits, just like we have now; mayor, deputy mayor, and the town council--you met most of them--and we claim to some amount of labor from whoever is stationed in Ichabod.  However, Ichabod keeps its own patrol and it answers to us, not you."
He hopes to God Joe tells him later that's fair.  "Okay."  
"Amanda regularly consults the mayor--me, right now--and keeps me updated on what's going on.  I won't interfere, but..." 
"We'll figure it out." 
She nods, taking a deep breath, shoulders slumping for a moment as her hand tightens on his arm again.  Then she straightens, glancing toward the jeep only a few feet away.  "We should get to the field."
He helps her into the passenger seat, feeling a little dazed as he circles the jeep and climbs inside.  He has just enough time to turn the ignition before she says, out of goddamn nowhere, "You're not afraid of me."
"Huh?"  He looks across the cabin of the jeep in bewilderment.  "Because you're psychic or because you gossip with my people?  Because hell yes on the second part.  What are they telling you, anyway?"
"Well, gotta admit, your press agents there aren't nearly as inaccurate as I thought."  Before Dean can take that in (What the hell are they telling her?  Or she's reading from their goddamn minds?), she gives the gear shift a significant look.  "You gonna start driving anytime soon?"
They're halfway to the training field before Alison breaks the uncomfortable silence with, "So when do you want me to call a meeting of the town council?  I don't think there'll be a lot of objections once they hear it, but they'll definitely have questions. You need a few days?"
It's probably just his imagination that she sounds like maybe she wants him to say yes so she can suggest Joe pay a visit.  "When's the soonest you can get them together?"
"Tomorrow morning," she answers, smirking at his expression.  "Morning off duty for official business with included breakfast?  No one argues about that."
He grins at her.  "Works for me."
"I was hoping to get to the training field this morning," she adds, watching out the windshield intently.  "Teresa just got back from her circuit of our trade partners last night and today's her first day in Amanda's class.  Glad you came by this soon: she's looking forward to meeting you.  They should be breaking for lunch, so I'll introduce you."
That might be that 'T--" she cut off.  "Teresa?"
"My partner."
That explains a lot.  "I'm looking forward to it."
"You heard me," Amanda says during the midafternoon break as she leans against the makeshift fence they erected around the training area.  It's not a real barrier, more a boundary marker; here be people trying to learn to shoot, speak workable Latin in every possible accent (not like he can judge there), and learn a salt line doesn't need an entire goddamn bag of salt.  Dean glares at her from his perch on the top, hooking his feet under the lower rail and watching in longing as Mark patiently walks his group through the punch-and-run-away-fast method of escaping evil, which works way more than anyone gives it credit for. "You even think of getting off that fence, I tell Cas you looked feverish."
Dean glares at the swinging blonde ponytail that mocks him silently.  "That won't work forever."
"You'd be surprised.  Vera said nothing strenuous until she gets back, and gotta tell you, Dean?" She turns to give him a clinical once-over.  "You're way out of shape."
"I could take you," he lies, resting his elbows on his knees.  "You always listen to what Vera says?'
She raises her eyebrows.  "Uh, yeah."
At some point--not now, and definitely not when she's armed--he's gonna mention that torch she's carrying can probably be seen from space.  They live together, for fuck's sake; you'd think by now they'd have fallen into bed together just on principle.  
"So what'd you think of Teresa?" he asks casually.
Amanda tilts her head. "Nine, nine and a half, maybe--"  Her mouth twitches at Dean's expression. "She's hot, okay?  I've been stuck at Chitaqua for a while now.  Forgive me for enjoying the new scenery."
"And Alison's girlfriend."
"Alison's hot, and I can be flexible."  Her expression smoothes out. "She's a hunter."
"Teresa?"  She nods.  "I was wondering about Manuel after walking through patrol with him. They were partners before they got here, right?"
"Oh yeah," Amanda agrees, pausing to watch Mark start his next group running back and forth, eyes narrowing.  Dean has no idea what she's getting out of this, but it seems pretty important, so he waits until she feels he's worth her attention again. "After working with Ichabod's patrol a couple of times, I wondered, but two years out here, you learn fast or die.  Very different training, but it gets the job done."
Dean cocks his head. "Training?"
"Down to their sensible boots," she confirms wryly. "My bad: Cas taught me better than to assume combat skills were universal.  Not that they don't have all the basics down just fine.  Just not as much, and not as dependent on guns as most hunters are."
"They're from Laredo," Dean tells her, wondering how to put this.  "Not a lot of people can afford to carry down there, let's put it that way."
She winces. "That might explain it."
"What's their weapon of choice?"
"Cas'll love 'em," she says, grin returning.  "Pretty much anything with a blade.  They know their metals, too: silver, cold iron, gold--not plated, either--and get this--bronze, and that's just the one I recognized on sight. And all custom work if I know my weapons.  Manuel showed me his collection a few days ago, and Jesus. Handle, quillions, and thumb rise were fitted to his hand by an expert, unreal balance--not throwing knives, but I bet they'd do in a pinch--and weighted for his best reach.  The blades…."  He blinks down at her, wondering if he should maybe leave her alone or something before she sighs.  "Anyway, haven't got a chance to ask to see hers yet, but on a guess, she's got the same. Only thing I couldn't figure out is why we wouldn't have heard about them; not a lot of brother-sister partnerships out there, and hunters are incestuous as fuck."
"Not if they only worked the border," he answers, remembering his time down there.  "They'd have enough on their plate just there."
She makes a face, nodding agreement.
"What else you got?"
"She has some of the usual scars, but not in the right places and not as many as she should for her age, but she's got the experience and then some," Amanda says.  "Not a lot of close-quarters type, either, if you know what I mean, but here's where it gets interesting; neither does Manuel."  Dean looks at her for a long time.  "There's only three bathrooms at Alison's; everyone's seen everyone naked, you get used to it."
"Are we ever gonna get you back to Chitaqua?"
Amanda smirks.  "Did I mention they both have anti-possession tattoos?  And a few others that looked pretty interesting?"
"Keep going," Dean sighs.
"I've been working with Manuel and Ichabod's patrol teams a couple of times a week when they have time, but now that I've met Teresa, I get what I was missing with him."
"Besides the fact he has a sister and they're both hunters?"
"He's used to having her at his back, which is why he seems off with anyone else."  She whistles, shaking her head. "I really want to see what they do together.  If how they've trained the patrol is any indication, they could teach us a few things.  You know, when I officially find out they're hunters, partners, and…" she trails off suggestively.
"Their patrols?"  She nods smugly. "She and Manuel also both command Ichabod's patrol. "So I'm not imagining it; they lied to us."
"Not lied," Amanda allows.  "More left out a few things.  And in case you're wondering if this was just Alison worrying about her girlfriend, it's not.  Everyone I had out here today was watching me with her every goddamn minute."
Interesting.  "How'd you even guess about Alison?"
"They've been together for two years and I live in their building," she answers in amusement.  "You're with someone that long, it's hard to hide, and Alison wasn't used to even having to.  Her absence was noticeable, trust me. I figured that was the problem at first."
"And you fixed it with your magical gossip powers."  She nods brightly.  "Now?"
"That was definitely part of it," she answers obliquely.  "The circuit thing Teresa was on, though--that was true. A few days every month or two, she and a couple of others visit the other towns in their network.  This time, though, it was longer, that much I picked up.  Gay, Alison's girlfriend, hunter, patrol's co-leader--the first two I get being privileged information, but not the last two, not unless it has something to do with why no one will talk about what she's actually doing on that circuit."
"They're trade partners," he argues, more because Amanda's enjoying the roundabout approach and he's got some time.  "She could be protecting whoever's visiting or representing Ichabod for Alison.  Hiatus or not, you don't break that kind of habit."
"And that's so need-to-know they hide her existence for almost three weeks?"  She looks up at him.  "Manuel showed you the wards they're using, right?  Did you recognize any of the languages other than Spanish?"
"I can't read 'em, if that's what you mean.  They're all indigenous to Mexico, though, and at least one Manuel confirmed died out before Columbus came to fuck shit up for the natives.  Why?"
"You've seen them before, though."
He hesitates.  "When I was on the border a while back, I saw something similar.  Manuel was pretty vague when I mentioned it, said it was standard down there, which makes sense."
Turning, the rests her arms on the top rung of the fence to look at him.  "And?"
"Cas ever tell you the history of wards through human history?" he asks, and Amanda's eyes widen in unmistakable sympathy.  "Interesting fact: all of them have the same base, everything else is extras, but the extras are what makes them do what you want them to.  Pop question: would you be okay with trusting wards without knowing every goddamn symbol in 'em and what they meant?"
"If someone I trusted with my life--say, Cas--knew them.  That's what I was thinking." She smiles up at him.  "Any chance you can be sneaky and watch who checks the wards today and what they do?"
He glances at the sun; you learn fast how to calculate time when you don't have a watch, and it's about two hours past noon.  "Hans did the refresh an hour ago."
"Try southwestern end of Main an hour before dusk." She smirks at him.  "Manuel's not subtle when he thinks we're busy on the training field and you're not here; he's the one that been actually doing them, so yes, the one o'clock rotation of patrol doing them is indeed totally fake.  Which explains why Hans skips a third of them." She shrugs at his expression.  "I'm a ninja."
"No shit," he says, a little awed.  "Anything else?"
"They both carry steel standard, but Teresa also carries a ceramic knife," she answers. "Six inch white blade, custom design, prettiest thing I've ever seen, wish I could have gotten a better look.  Ceramic: harder than hardened steel, holds an edge forever, can take a lot of wear, and…."
"--defines the word null," he finishes, turning it over in his head.  "I wonder what you'd use that for?"
"Everything," she says on a gusty sigh.  "Or at least, everything that you can kill with a really goddamn sharp blade.  Among other things, which I'm guessing Cas might know about."
"You want one, don't you?"
"I want all of them," she says sulkily.  "There's gotta be a forge around here somewhere."
"You even know how to make a knife?"
She scowls.  "I'm motivated to learn.  Kansas Library's gotta have something."  Before he can reply that 'Making Mystical Knives At Home' probably isn't a title that's gonna show up on a lot of shelves (though maybe Cas has one of those; he'll ask), she turns at Mark's shout and sighs.  "Okay, break's over.  You staying here or going back to town now to play with the three year olds?"
"Just doing my part so we look less crazy," he answers with dignity, turning to slide off the rail.  Glancing at the sky again, he figures he's got about an hour to find someplace on Main to watch what's going on with those wards.
"That's what I meant."  Pushing off the fence, she gives him a querying look.  "By the way, I heard Alison telling Teresa you two talked this morning.  Any problems?"
"Nothing like that."  Dean answers with a shrug as he starts back to the jeep.  "She just wanted to satisfy her curiosity."
@@@@@@
--Day 119--

"How," Alison says, leaning against the open door of the toddler room with a wry look, "did I guess this is where you'd be?"
Dean warily looks down at Sissy sprawled across his lap, thin, beaded black braids trailing over his arm.  To his relief, she only stirs briefly before turning her head against his chest and falls still again with an unintelligible mutter.  Shooting a warning look at Alison--she has no idea how the hell long it took to get Sissy to fall asleep--he tries to decide how the hell to get up off the floor without using his arms and wonders what the hell he was thinking. For fuck's sake, a chair was right there.
"Right," Alison mouths with exaggerated alarm, eyes flickering to Haruhi, who's on her last day of her week in the daycare and jerking her head toward Dean.  Reluctantly, Dean lets Haruhi take the sleeping girl to join the other napping toddlers and stands up, ignoring the sound his back makes, and grabbing his jacket off the only adult size chair as he follows Alison out of the room and closes the door carefully behind them.  From the way she's leaning on that cane, he's gonna guess she hasn't been kind to that ankle this morning.
"Seriously, you like toddlers?" Alison asks him, waving a staccato greeting at passing parent as they start down the hall.  "Not even the people who give birth to them can say that most of the time and mean it."
He shrugs as they emerge into the deserted foyer, trying to decide how to ask how it's going so far.  It's not like he was looking forward to talking to the council or anything, but they started an hour after dawn and it's already past noon. "So--"
"I'm starving, how about you?" she interrupts brightly.  "Let's get something to eat, what do you say?"  She doesn't give him a chance to respond, already limping bravelyout the door, which he assumes isn't a good sign of how this morning's meeting went.
Tugging on his jacket hastily--the constant wind and occasional rain are making up for the lack of subfreezing temperatures--he follows her outside, catching up just as she starts to cross the square.  For a woman with a limp and a cane, she can really get around.
"So you gonna tell me how it went?" he asks at the half-way point, shoving his hands in his pockets.
"Not what I expected." She glances up furtively before focusing on the admin building: definitely not good.  Swallowing, he forces down disappointment, reminding himself that before yesterday, it was enough Ichabod's residents and his militia didn't shoot at each other on sight.  "There are a couple of things that…." She shakes her head.  "You like chicken, right?"
"What?  Sure, whatever.  Look--" 
"Good, since that's what we're having," she says firmly, putting on another burst of speed that can't be doing anything good for her ankle, and she's already reaching for the door when she seems to realize he stopped.  Turning sharply, she glares at him.  "Hurry up, would you?"
"Alison."
Looking annoyed, she sighs, leaning against the armchair to her left.  "We're on lunch.  Dolores and Eyong went to get it. You're up when we reconvene."
"Okay."  He waits, but she doesn't seem to have anything else there. "So how'd it go?"
"Unless you say something stupid, it'll be approved."  She shrugs, but even from here, he can see the strain on her face and wonders in growing alarm if she had the kind of bad night that comes from the nightmare that is the future, but for some reason, he doesn't think so. "Sometimes, it's useful to know what people are thinking."
"So--" He has just enough time to realize why she's leaning on the armchair before her cane starts to slide, and darting onto the walkway, he catches her just as she loses her grip and it clatters to the porch.  "Alison!"
"I'm fine," she breathes through white lips, flickering an irritated look up at him as he lowers her into the chair.  "Just a long morning, that's all."
Crouching, he peers into her pale face, trying to decide if she's telling the truth.  "What?  You fucking up your ankle worse?  Let me get Dolores--"
"No!" Compressing her lips, she squeezes her eyes shut.  "It's fine."
"But--"
"It's not that," she grinds out between her teeth, starting to look worryingly nauseated and this is starting to look really familiar.  He glances down and sees her grinding her ankle against the leg of the chair.  "I just need. A minute."
"Head down," he says firmly, ignoring her scowl to gently push her head against her knees and rubbing slow, careful circles between her shoulder blades.  Beneath his fingers, he can feel every muscle drawn wire-tight; from second-hand experience with a certain psychic brother, he's gonna guess she's been like this for hours. "Deep breathes, you know the drill."
"Oh yeah," she mutters into her jeans.  "That.  Helps."
"Probably does shit," he agrees.  "So tell me what does."  Dolores wasn't mentioned on her list  yesterday, which only leaves a few options--or hey, go with the obvious one.  "Where's Teresa?"
"With Amanda and no fucking way," she answers, sounding stronger, and taking a deep breath, she sits up, leaning her head against the back of the chair.  "I'm fine, it was--"
"--just a long morning," he finishes for her.  "This happen a lot?"
"No, just when I'm in a confined space with thirty plus people for four hours, half of them thinking about how we're all going to die anyway, so what's the point, and the other half more cheerfully thinking how we're all going to die anyway, so why not."  She manages the ghost of her usual glare, but the haunted hazel eyes tell the story better than any words ever could.  And people call this a gift: that shit's not even true in fairy tales, never has been.  "You try it and tell me how it works out for you."
Yeah, he's been wondering about that. "Maybe not reading them all would help," he says neutrally, sitting back on his heels.  "Privacy and everything.  Think about it."
"What a good idea," she snaps, a little color returning  to her face. "I wish I'd thought of it, thanks. It's not that easy when it's--concentrated like that.  Especially four hours of it.  Not like it's fun for me."
Fun is the last word he'd use to describe it.  "Usually you can, though."
"Usually," she agrees quickly, but he doesn't miss the slight relaxation when he nods.  "Look, it'll be fine.  Like I said--"
"Don't be stupid, good advice, thanks," he says, glancing briefly at the door.  "Now you gonna get around to what else is bothering you?"
She raises her eyebrows challengingly.  "Psychic trauma isn't enough?"
"Why the hell you were so eager for a chicken lunch, for one."  She winces, swallowing hard: yeah, that's what he thought. "Food wasn't on the agenda here, so wanna fill me in?"
She blows out an irritable breath, shoulders slumping.  "I don't know how many recruits you're gonna get," she says finally, and to his surprise, he hears defeat in her voice.  "I thought--I don't know what I thought, Dean. I didn't think it would be like that."
He doesn't ask what the hell she expected reading an entire room of civilians for an entire morning, no matter how new she is at this, but he may have a theory. "So what, you want me to inspire them? Stirring speech, all the extras?"
He was actually joking, but Alison looks up at him with the most skeptical expression he's ever seen in his life.  "What?"
"Nothing," she lies.
"No really, what?" The addition of incredulity doesn't help.  "I can do inspiring."
"Maybe we should wait for Joe," Alison says, starting to brighten.  "He could--"
"Get up," he snaps, getting to his feet and extending a hand that she stares at like she's never seen one before.  "Not kidding, Alison, I'll carry you if I have to, but we're having lunch."
Alison transfers her gaze to his face.  "We are?"
"Yeah, we are; now, you wanna walk or you wanna be carried?"  Reluctantly, she takes his arm, and Dean's unbearably grateful he gave her his left; she may be thin, but she's got a grip like a goddamn vice. "We're figure out how the hell I'm gonna play this."
Watching Amanda and Mark dismiss the last class of the day, Dean notes the easy rapport between them and the residents, impressed despite himself.  Only two weeks, but Amanda fits in as easily as if she's always lived here, and Mark's not doing too badly himself.  Abruptly, one of the residents--Claudia's son Derek, he thinks, squinting against the sun at the vague outline of short, startled dreadlocks a head taller than Amanda--points toward him, and Dean waves weakly at the sudden flurry of attention.  He's still not used to that.
Making himself comfortable on the hood of the jeep, Dean waits patiently for Amanda and Mark to cross the field and vault the fence, both grinning up at him with cheerful curiosity.
"Hey," Amanda says as they reach him.  "What's up?"
"Change of plans.  I'm going back to Chitaqua tonight."  Amanda's eyebrows jump as Dean looks at Mark.  "I need to talk to Amanda. You have the latest list from Lanak I can take back to Chuck?"
"In my room," Mark confirms, exchanging a look with Amanda.  "I'll get a ride back to town with Min and get it."
Dean waits until Mark's halfway toward the remaining residents before turning his full attention on Amanda, who looks back warily.  "What?"
"You've made a great impression," he tells her earnestly, bracing his elbows on his knees.  "I'm very proud of you."
"Thanks," she answers uncertainly. "It's been great--"
"Up at dawn," he continues, clasping his hands. "Out here all day, maybe a break for lunch, done an hour before dusk….no, wait. That would be around the time third shift is coming on duty."
She makes a face.  "Dean--"
"Work ethic is good," he interrupts, no longer smiling.  "Eighteen hours in the field every goddamn day isn't a work ethic, it's a cry for help."
She licks her lips, frowning at nothing.
"Four groups daily, three to four hours each, you and Mark split them up anyway you wanted and Kamal assists, that I approved," he says.  "Working with Manuel and patrol a couple of times a week, that we agreed to, you picked how you'd do it.  Working with a whole new group almost every night--not to mention you and Mark's demonstration matches in the morning--do you sleep?"
"I get bored easily," she answers, giving him a challenging look.  "Yes, Dean, I'm sleeping and eating regularly, and when did you become a mother hen?"   She winces, closing her eyes.  "Sorry, that was out of line."
"Sleep deprivation leads to poor judgment," Dean answers in his best imitation of Cas, relieved when her tension eases.  "And narcotics: do I need to toss your room?  I live with Chitaqua's resident dealer and perks include knowing exactly what everyone gets from him and how much."
"The relationship between a girl and her dealer is sacred," she argues, crossing her arms mulishly.  "But no, I'm not.  That's work-only at need, and I'm not an idiot."  She hesitates, arms dropping.  "I just…Alison said no one bothered Ichabod, but it's not easy to get here unless you know what you're looking for, or you're mapping roads for Cas and know he'll question you if you miss anything."
He figured that was where this was going.  "You think those units in Wichita got here after all?"
"Not to Ichabod," she answers.  "Alison wasn't lying, but the other mayors were. Something happened, definitely more than once."
"I was hoping I was wrong about that."  He grimaces, taking a deep breath.  "What'd you find out?"
"Nothing specific."  She frowns at nothing.  "Ana and Leah asked me to check it out while I was here, find out what we were dealing with.  I met with the mayors, toured the towns, and watched everyone who approached us and who made sure they didn't have to.  They're afraid of us, Dean; the only reason the other mayors are doing this is that Alison and Danny guaranteed our good behavior personally and Alison backed it up offering up Ichabod as the sacrifice."
"Right."  He blows out a breath.  "I get it, but what does that have to do with you--"
"They talk a lot, the towns," she interrupts, words falling out in a hasty rush.  "They trade, and some have families in the other towns, word gets out.  There weren't enough slots in the classes--and some people didn't have time--so I told a few of them here I'd be hanging out in the training field a few times a week after Mark and Kamal went off duty, in case anyone wanted to come by."  She meets his eyes. "Some of the ones who are in the day classes, they told me they had relatives visiting and wondered if it was okay for them to come by at dusk."
"From the other towns?" Dean takes in the field and belatedly remembers they no longer live in the age of almost-guaranteed electricity.  "Where--"
"In town, Fifth Street, an old YMCA or something.  I talked to Tony, and he got Walter to hotwire it onto the grid--don't ask, I didn't understand it when they used small words--for a few hours at night."  She brightens.  "It's great--from what Tony said, when winter hits, it's gonna be a bitch, so we've been fixing it up."
He cocks his head.  "'We'?"
"Haruhi and Derek and a few others volunteered to help me and Mark when they're off-duty.  I do the evening stuff there."
"How many?"
"Everyone who shows up," she answers wryly.  "First time being a girl hunter has been an advantage; the women I talked to in the other towns came here during the day with the other observers, saw me teaching, heard about the night classes, and suddenly found a reason they needed to be in Ichabod for a week or two.  Dean, I've been a hunter all my life, but I never--" She breaks of, biting her lip. "Kids weren't really much of a possibility for me, and my sisters didn't like the life, never even met their kids after they left."
Dean thinks of Sam at Stanford and tries not to think about what almost was.  "I'm sorry."
"It happens," she answers with another shrug; yeah, it does, and he gets how lucky he is--incredibly, mind-blowingly lucky--to still have Sam.  That's not the rule, not in their line of work.  "What I'm saying is, I didn't realize--I like doing this, Dean.  It's not just my job; I need to do this, and they need me to do it."
Yeah, and he sent two men and one woman to a town of civilians thirty miles from Wichita, despite his suspicions on what might have happened around here.  He thinks of Ellen and Jo, of the women he hunted with and never thought anything of it, of Chitaqua, but when he thinks of training hunters, it's still men he thinks about actually doing it.
"I get that."  She closes her mouth, surprised. "You like it here?"
"What?"
"Do you like it here?" he asks doggedly.  "Nice locals, good food--"
"Amazing food," she confirms with a hint of malice.  "Didn't used to be a steak person, but now…."  Dean rolls his eyes.  "Why?"
"You're probably gonna be here for a while," he answers.  "The town council agreed we could recruit from Ichabod."
Amanda's mouth drops open.  "Holy shit."
"In return, we help out here, pick up some extra duties around Ichabod, and they get a team assigned here," he answers, bracing his hands on the hood of the jeep and enjoying her shock.  "And some other stuff, but we'll talk about that later.  I'm going to check with Cas, see what he thinks, but--"
"Wait," she interrupts, sounding alarmed.  "Cas doesn't know about this?"
"No," he replies.  "Council just approved it.  That's why I'm going back tonight, let him look over the terms, argue, it's a thing.  Why?"
"Uh."  Amanda at a loss for words: he didn't know that was even possible.  "So he doesn't…."
If he were a better person, he reflects, he'd probably just tell her. "What?  Think he'd have a problem with it?"
"Do we even have anywhere in Chitaqua to put new recruits?" she asks desperately. "Generators, electricity--cabins!  Not enough cabins, Dean."
"Oh, we're doing it here," he answers, waving a hand dismissively.  "No worries."
"You're going make Cas come here?"
"I'll talk him into visiting eventually," Dean says, taking in the sinking sun complacently before starting to climb off the jeep.  "Anyway--right, I gotta get out here.  Tell Mark--"
"Wait," she says, taking an abortive step toward him.  "Look--maybe talk to Cas first, see what--"
"He said he taught you how to train them," Dean says in satisfaction.  "I'm sure he'll be okay with it."
Amanda goes still, and Dean can almost see the moment it clicks.  "Me?"
"Yeah, so start working on your time management skills," he continues.  "So, what do you think?"
"Me."
He grins.  "You want to train hunters?  I’m giving you some.  Show me what you got."
"You'll need to work out a schedule on who will take the classes we're doing to fulfill our part of the deal and supervise what they're doing," he tells her, checking the position of the sun before turning his attention back to Amanda on the jeep beside him.  "Cas will expect regular reports on everyone's progress, so don't think you're getting out of those, but if it makes you feel better, you're now in charge of making sure everyone else suffers as much as you do."
She brightens.  "It kind of does, thanks."
"So how long do you need--"
"Now." She covers her mouth, choking back a quiet laugh.  "I might have gauged interest already, fine."
"Wow, I never would have guessed."  He cocks his head.  "So what else do you need--"
"I need Cas."
Dean blinks. "What?"
"Look, you and Cas are the only ones who've ever actually trained anyone, for one," she explains hurriedly. "I haven't, all I did was learn it and I didn't even know that's what I was doing.  Two--it's flexible, I get that, the point was for it to work for anyone, but everyone I get will be on the front lines from the get-go, so let's start with those with the fastest learning curve and go from there.  Everyone is gonna be motivated--they're protecting their families--but I want them to survive it, too  Me, Mark, Kamal, and whatever team you assign here are effectively off the roster for patrol, so the first ones go to you as our replacements, and this hiatus isn't gonna last forever.  We need to be ready for it."
Jesus, she has reasons.  Good ones.  "Cas isn't really--"
"I know," she says shortly, staring at the field. "I was in his last class, Dean."
He nods tightly, wondering how much she judges him for what the other Dean's team leaders were doing, if she thinks Cas finally told him or he knew all along.  He's honestly not sure which would be better, or if there even is a better here.
"So first step toward getting over yourself, do it nice and easy," Amanda continues in a more normal voice.  "All I want is for him to come down, look over the possibilities, and make sure we have everything here we need to train them. I'd like him to come observe a few times," she gestures vaguely, "ease him into it.  There are a couple of things he can teach that I can't risk with newbies later on--not having leftover angel speed and strength--so we start slow."
"Make something up so I have an excuse to bring him here and just happen to check on what you're doing," Dean interprets.  "You ever heard honesty is the best policy?"
"How long did you wait to tell Cas what his job was again?"
"I never said I believed it," he replies.  "Just saying--no idea.  You really need him?"
"Yeah," she answers, licking her lips nervously.  "I want him here, too.  So sue me, but this is the first time I've done it, and I'd like my instructor to tell me I'm doing okay."
The honesty surprises him; they get along okay, but he thinks that it's possible they're not in just leader-subordinate territory anymore. He didn't expect that, not of Vera's roommate, not this soon.  
"So you got some potential recruits in mind?"
"Not a problem," she answers, relaxing incrementally.  "We got a lot of potential here."
"For no reason whatsoever," he says, not looking at her, "I'm curious about how the women you're teaching are doing.  Any potential there?"
"Yeah, why?"
"Any of them with enough for recruitment and willing to be recruited?" Amanda looks up, eyes unreadable.  "They're on front lines, you said it yourself, but I'm willing to defer to you on what that means.  Can some of them make the cut?"  
He wants her to say yes, because while people are gonna be people and mostly they're good at that, sometimes they're not.  Somehow, he just doesn't think that training a whole group of male hunters a town filled with civilians is gonna be a good time to trust good intentions, not in a town less than thirty miles from Wichita City, not with four other towns who know exactly how close that city was.
"This isn't the military," she says, tipping her head back in thought.  "Hunting is more flexible.  No one living here this long hasn't had to fight at least a few times, and everyone but the kids takes a patrol shift.  I can get them, no problem.  How fast can you get Cas here?"
"How long will it take you to be ready?"
"I'm ready now," she answers, grinning at him. "But I can wait a day or two, if you need it."
So there it is.  "Now just leaves Cas to convince.  Any idea how?"
Amanda tilts her head, and he knew it was a stupid question even before he said it.   "Not that I'd know, not being into cocks myself, but from what Sean said--"
"Shut up." He's gotta wonder at the unfairness of the universe when it hits you twice in the ass.  He's not fucking Cas, and everyone thinks he is, which right now is less important than he can't do what any self-respecting leader would do for the greater good and bang his boyfriend into a good enough mood to agree to do it.  He could make it an order, if he was crazy (or was really bored and needed entertainment), but he's beginning to believe the most valuable leadership skill he could pick up is making sure that's the last resort to getting a job done.   Telling himself that he won't be the man he replaced looked easy from the outside, but he thinks that the job of keeping that true isn't one he can do alone.  It'll help if everyone's in on this one whether they know it or not to make sure of it.  "Three days from now.  That okay?"
She looks dubious.  "Really?"
"Really," he confirms with more confidence than he actually feels.  "Have 'em ready by noon and we'll get this show on the road."
"Okay."  Amanda turns at the sound of an engine, and even now, her hand drops to her hip before she relaxes.  "It's Mark."
Dean twists around to see Mark coming to a stop nearby.
"We did some trading during our tour of the other towns," she explains, sliding to the ground. "We're a lot cheaper than the border guards, and have a better variety, so Cas approved getting rid of some of our surplus.  God knows we're running out of space anyway."
They do have a lot of surplus, Dean concedes; Joe inventoried every military installation they could find in all four cities, and they're still sending people weekly to pick up what they couldn’t carry the week before.  Joe's also pretty sure now they haven't found all of them, though how he knows that Dean has no idea and puts up to wizardry.  
He's also not just a trafficker; he runs a honest to God ring now.  Good to know.
"Not much this time," Mark says, joining Amanda.  "It'll all fit in the jeep.  You mind if I go back with you so I can drop it off with Chuck? He had a couple of requests I need clarification on anyway, and Lanak had a few things for our next supply run."
Dean glares at him. "That's what you're going with?"
"Chuck and I are tight," Mark deadpans. 
"Just saying, it's weird how every time I start back, someone's gotta go with me," he says suspiciously.
"Weird," Amanda agrees.
"I don't need a babysitter," he says, which gets him twin amused smiles.  "Don't tell me--Cas's orders?"  He needs to talk to Cas about that, but as Cas is at Chitaqua, he'll have to get to first.  With Mark, apparently.
"Yep."  Amanda jerks her head toward town.  "I gotta clean up; Manuel's making pork chops tonight.  Want me to tell Alison when this show starts?  If you're sure, that is."
"I'm sure."  He almost sighs when Mark grins up at him, like it's perfectly normal for Dean to be carted around, which come to think, it kind of is.  "Let's get out of here."
When Dean arrives at the cabin a few hours after dusk--God, he loves driving, even if Mark does audibly wonder where he got his driver's license and why--the sight that greets him is familiar, in that way that after over two weeks of this almost makes him nostalgic for Cas's halcyon days as a junkie.  
Pausing at the door, Dean observes Cas in his new natural habitat: nestled cross-legged on the immaculately clean floor rug between the couch and the coffee table, staring at the screen of his laptop with a half-empty cup of coffee (cold) stationed to his right and a stack of notebooks and reports on his left.  He's used to Cas's ability to be eerily still, but not him doing that while also typing three hundred something words a minute, like each almost-blurred finger is possessed and in need of exorcism in the worst way.  He can do that, no sweat, and it'd be sad but inevitable that the keyboard (and maybe laptop) would be ruined and maybe salted and burned.  Just in case.
Waiting for acknowledgment that's probably not coming but hope springs eternal, he reminds himself again that Chuck isn't to blame for teaching Cas about the miracle of spreadsheets, though he's gotta wonder how the hell Chuck (or anyone who ever met Cas) didn't see where this was going to go.
(The exact chronology is still sketchy but goes something like this; Cas found out spreadsheets were part of a thing called Microsoft Office, discovered Word and something called 'templates', and the upshot is two evenings a week the mess is ground zero for Cas's camp-wide computer literacy program with military surplus laptops because patrol reports now have a standard formatting and God help you if your Times New Roman font is 10 pt and not 12.  They live in a camp where hot water is a mostly thing and electricity a sometimes maybe thing, but they may or may not be developing a working LAN, and Dean doesn't have google anymore to tell him what that is.  Cas also solemnly introduced him to his personal laptop that at some point he's supposed to use (for what, no idea), like the wound really needed more salt.)
"I'm back," he offers after a full minute of being ignored, most of which he spends restraining  himself from snatching that laptop from Cas and using it for target practice.  His left needs work. "How's it going?"
Without bothering to look up (seriously, rifle or handgun?), Cas points to the kitchen. "I became distracted before I could put it away, so dinner should still be warm."
"You think the romance is over?" he asks on his way to the kitchen, wondering if Cas will pretend he doesn't get the reference or even hear him (no response, could be either one).  Taking the lid of the pot, he surveys the contents and for a long moment, wonders if he's feverish and this is a cruel hallucination because this is his life.  "Cas."
"What?" Cas answers impatiently over the endless tapping of the keyboard, because he can multitask like that.  "It's stew."
"This isn't just stew," he answers, dazed by the many, many nuggets of actual beef rolling around in an orgy of beauty so profound it makes him kind of want to cry, dotted with vegetables without a set geometric shape and in their natural colors.  "This is Bobby's secret recipe for making vegetables delicious. Bobby taught you how to make his stew?"
"He was adamant I acquire useful life skills," Cas answers absently as his fingers test the upper endurance limits of the standard laptop keyboard.  "I'm sure even I couldn't get it wrong. He was very insistent about following the recipe."
Getting a bowl, Dean scoops up all he can fit inside it and grabs a spoon before plunking himself down on the opposite side of the coffee table and taking a hungry bite.  Beef.  Jesus, it's food, real food, and this particular cow was alive at some point in the last week and not preserved in can or freeze-dried or squirrel form.  Also, it's almost eerily good, and Dean's been eating real meals in Ichabod, so he's not imagining it; Cas is, actually, a really good cook.  Taking another bite, he can't quite hold back the moan of sheer appreciation.
The incessant slur of tapping that Dean didn't really notice (he totally noticed) abruptly stops as he makes his way steadily through the bowl, relieved that this is one of the few times that he's actually hungry.  It's still pretty random to feel it, and he appreciates the times it works out that hunger and meals coincide instead of forcing down food out of pure necessity.  
Remembering how much was left in the pot (enough for seconds and another meal or two, he thinks happily), he pauses mid-chew; there's no way that Cas actually remembered to make a decent meal for just himself when Dean isn't here.  "You cooking for other people now?"
"Alicia and I were working on a project earlier today and she reminded me beef was no longer a scarce commodity.  I asked her to taste test the results and tell me if I was successful, as she's intimately acquainted with Dean's culinary preferences and therefore yours."  Reassured (and not thinking of Alicia knowing his 'culinary preferences' and sharing with Cas, this day's been weird enough, thanks), Dean eagerly scrapes the bottom of the bowl for the last delicious bites.  "I--assume it's acceptable?"
"Oh yeah," he agrees, looking speculatively at the empty bowl and considering the possibility of a second helping.  Experience has taught him that his ability to consume food may not equal his stomach's ability to handle it.  Setting the bowl aside for now, he turns his attention to Cas, who abruptly jerks his attention back to his laptop, and reconsiders Cas's relationship with food again.  "What did you think of it?"
Cas shrugs.  "I didn't find the process of consuming it a nightmare from which only completing it would allow me to awaken."
"So you didn't hate it," he interprets, leaning an elbow on the coffee table.  "You hate beans, though."
"What?"  That must be a really interesting spreadsheet.  Can those have compulsions in 'em?  He should find out. 
"During Stoner Night," he explains.  "You and the kids ate all the beans."  With sugar, no less.  
"Marijuana use causes increased appetite. It's a common side effect."
"Yeah, which you have problems picking up, right?"  Cas nods absently.  "Makes sense: hard to miss it when you're high. When did you start your drug phase anyway?  Before or after you Fell?"
"After.  When I finished training the first group of recruits, I sampled marijuana and found it good.  Almost worth living for," Cas answers .  "Would you like my entire drug history as well?"
"Later," he answers, starting to grin.  "So that's why you hate food."
Cas raises an eyebrow, eyes still fixed on the screen.  "As always, I await your wisdom with bated breath."
"What's that thing where you don't like something because it's associated with other shit?"
"Aversion."  Dean gives himself a pat on the goddamn back, because hey, he just figured it out.  "Why--"
"Months of choking down what passes for food here without being hungry: food aversion.    On a guess, that included a lot of beans and canned shit, am I right?  Bet that shit the army thought was food didn't help, either." Cas actually stops typing, looking at him in surprise.  "Should have started your guru act before you learned to hate food, could have avoided a lot of problems.  You haven't had hamburgers, right?  I mean, you don't hate them yet."
"I have," Cas answers blankly. "But not since I Fell."
"Good, we'll start there."  Dean frowns at him speculatively.  "We'll get you high first, wait for the hunger to kick in, then introduce you two, see what happens.  What do you think?"
"You're encouraging me to get high?"
"Just saying, hamburgers are awesome," he answers, fighting back a smile at Cas's incredulity.  "We'll take it slow, don't want to fuck it up and give you an aversion to anything else.  Remind me if I forget.  We'll have a party or something, see if this works."
"I don't even know how to answer that," Cas says finally, looking helpless.
"Anything interesting happen while I was gone?" he asks before losing Cas to the laptop again.  May even notice that he's home a day early.
"Joseph left this morning for his visit to the border guards.  Apparently he's formed a bond with Laurence Evans, currently supervisor of Checkpoint Three on the Kansas/Missouri border," Cas answers.  "They have whiskey while completing illegal wire transfers and weapons trading, and Laurence is an excellent source of information, especially following two glasses, preferably on the rocks."
"Gossip," Dean says wisely. He has yet to actually see one of the border stations for himself--for reasons of being the most wanted in the world, it's a bad idea for his face to show up on the cameras--but Cas's mapmaking efforts include not only all the border stations in Kansas but their functions as well.  The passthroughs are dangerous territory for the casual venality of illegal border transactions--and people wanted in several states under several names--but excellent for information on the movements of the military.
Checkpoint Three isn't a passthrough and doesn't host a military base: settled half-way between Kansas City and the southern Kansas border, it doesn't even have highway access, 69 running parallel to the border, and the closest town is the one that built up around it on the Missouri side, which according to Joe's latest observations just added a Wal-Mart.  Wait.
"Does his bond with Larry have anything to do with why Checkpoint Three may or may not qualify for a McDonalds by population?  Despite the fact they don't do much but look dangerous while patrolling the Kansas/Missouri wilderness?"  And not very: seriously, the few roads around there are shit, and wilderness is the best word to describe it, since most of the towns nearby, including Fort Scott, were abandoned or--according to gossip--forcibly evacuated to create the five mile buffer zone around the border.
"Security access."  At Dean's blank look, he sighs.  "On the western border, the stations have a three to five day delay to get confirmation of wire transfers, which is why Joseph's trips would usually take a week. As it turns out, the reason is that all transactions of that type are actually done at Checkpoint Three because--"
"Larry approves them," Dean finishes for him, nodding along.  "And makes them untraceable, however that works."
"Essentially, though it's actually a very unpleasant analyst named Stephen Walker who does that part," Cas corrects him.  "Joseph commented the man was extremely patronizing during their brief interaction."
"The kind of people who charge a thousand percent markup on toothpaste and aspirin aren't the kind that care about making a good impression."
"I don't expect them to be other than swine," Cas answers coolly.  "But we pay them enough for them to pretend they aren't, at least to our faces.  In any case, the last time Joseph was there, he observed the border guard was supplemented with an unusual number of military personnel despite the lack of activity, but according to Laurence, there's been no sign that they plan to replace the units stationed in Kansas' major cities even though it seems they do have the personnel.  He plans to investigate further, as several of the border staff apparently believe he's a former mercenary, international arms broker, intelligence officer for the Israeli army, and secret assassin for the Mossad spying for the American government--or possibly the New World Order, it's not entirely clear--on you, them, Kansas, and possibly the military, and so are extremely enthusiastic in the hopes of being part of the adventure that is his secret life.  Lives, rather."
"Nothing about the Illuminati?"  Dean thinks of the gleeful stories of Joe in training in Chitaqua and marvels again the guy did three his three years in the Israeli army and managed--against all odds--to remember absolutely nothing about combat.  Ana's description of the time Joe twisted his ankle when introduced to his first knife lives fresh in everyone's memories, though no one can explain how since he wasn't moving or even standing up at the time.  "All of that?  How?"
"Joseph thinks their imaginations seem to be doing the work of explaining that and feels it's best to leave them to it," Cas answers wryly.  "They do promise, however, to keep his secret."
"So there's basically nothing about it that isn't ridiculous?"
"Not even the latest prices."  At this point, they basically have the border patrol on a quarterly retainer and that shit's expensive, even if they can afford it.  He's glad that Cas told him about that stint at JP Morgan Chase.  He never questioned the numbers Joseph brought back on those accounts, because while no, weapons trafficking wouldn't bring in that kind of money, he really didn't want to ask and risk finding out what did.
"What do they think happened to those units in the cities anyway?"
"Officially AWOL. Joseph said Laurence seemed genuinely puzzled there's no sign of them being replaced, since the units, understaffed or not, were supposed to eradicate the Croatoan threat so the state could be unzoned once declared free of epidemic."
"To find out if there's no epidemic, might help to actually come inside the state borders," he remarks.  "Though why something that shows symptoms in only hours needs a goddamn two year quarantine…"
"Humans show symptoms in only hours, yes," Cas says. "The problem is that demons can keep an infected human body in stasis indefinitely while they're inside it and therefore can pass any quarantine requirements.  Lucifer's human followers often hosted demons voluntarily for that reason, and Pestilence also possesses biokinesis.  From what I understand, the CDC's lab results that showed the correct timeline were quickly discredited by the reality of the pattern of infection, which could have been easily explained if they believed in demons--or Horsemen--but as they didn't--"
"--they had no idea why there wasn't a match," Dean finishes glumly.  "One demon in an infected body throws off the curve the minute they leave it.   You're telling me Lucifer was up to date on the latest and greatest in how humans deal with disease these days?"
"Infinite knowledge," Castiel intones before he grins maliciously.  "No, of course not.  Lucifer would never so lower himself as to inquire on the details of his own master plan; that's what minions are for.  In this case, it was Pestilence's knowledge, who spent quality time after being thwarted to make a study of it."
He sighs. "Any less depressing news?"
"James is researching how roads are built," Cas answers fondly, and Dean hides his grin.  "He's decided his off-duty hours are best spent learning about asphalt, tar, gravel, and how those things work together to create surfaces on which one can drive, or fill potholes that almost wreck unsuspecting jeeps as the case may be."
"Those potholes are fucked," Dean agrees. "The mess still threatening a mutiny if Penn doesn't come back?"
"Penn requested temporary reassignment from Damiel's team to help Chuck to reorganize our inventory and supply.  She's also instructing Brenda more thoroughly in her duties overseeing the mess with our expanded variety, including assuring everyone's dietary requirements are met appropriately.  The results aren't yet hailed with enthusiasm but are far less likely to lead to outright warfare at each meal," he answers, though from his expression it was probably a really close thing.  "Alicia vouched for Brenda's sense of responsibility, so she'll be trusted with the keys to the cabin that has been repurposed for exclusive storage of our food supply." He frowns.  "Brenda asked me yesterday morning if we could steal an industrial walk-in refrigeration unit and freezer due to the increase in amount of fresh food that requires it.  While she's familiar with some preservation techniques, some things are apparently much better fresh."
Dean settles himself; this is Cas, and that sounds like a challenge.  "Well?"
"Penn and Zack think that we could either disassemble existing units in an abandoned restaurant," Cas says immediately, "or find a restaurant wholesaler in Topeka or Kansas City and get them there.  After surveying the mess with Nate, with some minor construction work, we can expand it sufficiently to accommodate both units as well as food storage, both long term and short."  Cas pauses briefly. "And perhaps some improvements could be done on the kitchen as well, though…."
Dean keeps his expression strictly curious.  "Something wrong with the kitchen?"
"No, everything is wrong with the kitchen!" Cas bursts out, looking appalled. "During our initial efforts to improve our living conditions," Home Improvements Weeks One and Two, yeah, "I didn't think to verify the integrity of the mess, as its kitchen seemed to be fully functional and I didn't care."
Don't laugh, Dean tells himself firmly.  You can do this. "Like--"
"The ovens that still work only have two temperatures: burned and undercooked," Cas says venomously. "The blackened object they call a range---I asked twice to make sure there was no miscommunication but sadly, that was indeed its actual function--was unable to maintain an even surface temperature for over five minutes in four separate tests I conducted personally, the utensils and cookware are warped to the point of being unrecognizable, and the dishes and flatware…" He trails off, looking haunted by horrors untold. "When I sent a team to acquire the correct kitchen supplies for us when I started cooking for you, it didn't occur to me--how, I'm not sure--that someone wouldn't have the good sense to acquire some for the mess as well."
He winces; he should've thought of that himself.  "I should have--"
"Overseeing Chitaqua's services was my responsibility, not yours," Cas interrupts. "I was meeting weekly with Penn; I should have been more proactive to assure she knew I was open to suggestions and not feel unduly intimidated. Instead, when Brenda took over, Alicia had to drag her here forcibly and stand over her while she asked me if I would perhaps consider a few small changes to our center of food preparation but there was no rush."
Cas's incredulous expression is a sight to behold.  "So…."
"It's a badly expanded cabin with an attached--and dilapidated--temporary building that is standing only through what must be a genuine miracle, and nothing we can do will change that," Cas answers immediately, leaning forward earnestly. "We need something built to accommodate its purpose as a center of food preparation and storage, that entering is a pleasure, eating within is not a chore, and working in is not a punishment to be escaped at the first opportunity.  Joseph and I found an excellent site for it; it's already furnished with the correct lines for plumbing, it's convenient to the other cabins, there's sufficient room for future expansion, and if we rebuild entirely, we'll simply find a restaurant we like and gut it entirely to bring here."
Dean sits back, feeling a little overwhelmed.  "You want to build a new mess?"
"No, we are going to build a new mess."  Dean blinks; Cas is almost vibrating in place, and oh God, this is an acutal plan.  "Nate told me of modern innovations in prefabricated buildings that can be easily transported in their component parts and assembled on location.  The interior will require a model, but Joseph and Ana were both in the military--albeit different nationalities--and Brenda in her youth volunteered at her high school cafeteria.  They've worked up a rough draft for you to review and a list of required materials is in progress."
Okay, he was only gone two days.  He thinks.  "When--"
"Last week, when Alicia made Brenda tell me about the problem with food storage," Cas says impatiently, like Dean's not keeping up.  "Joseph and I found the site a few days ago, and Nate returned from patrol yesterday afternoon and therefore was available for consultation."  Cas makes a face.  "Nate's still working on the supply list with Zack as of last night, so assuming Nate didn't make the mistake of drinking and then seducing Zack--who at this point should know better, admittedly--and therefore losing the morning to moody regret for what he enjoyed the night before, it should be ready for your review by tomorrow. If not, next week."  He eyes Dean uncertainly.  "There is one problem, however."
Dean nods obediently, not willing to even guess where Cas found his Waterloo in all of that.  "What?"
"Power."  Right, that.  Not full-scale construction projects, no.  "Above and beyond the needs of the new mess, we'll also need two dedicated generators for each refrigeration unit to assure we don't lose our entire food supply due to localized brown-outs as well as at least one back up."
"Not enough generators?"  Finding more isn't a problem, but the gasoline that runs them isn't infinite.  They have enough now, and getting it through the border guards isn't a problem yet, but Dean doesn't fool himself that the minute they start asking for more from the border guards, the price per gallon won't jump as well, and not just because of the risk.  
"No, that's not…surely there's a more efficient method of powering the camp?" he asks, eyes flickering to his laptop, which Dean assumes was a tragic victim of generator failure during the charging process.  "It's the twenty-first century.  Your ancestors didn't spend so much time and energy progressing humanity past single room huts and thinking feathers made acceptable writing implements for us to live like cave people who know how to fill a generator with gas and turn it on.   Gutenberg's and Tesla's sacrifices for us all should be honored."
He checks his automatic nod.  "Who's Tesla?"
Oh God, that's a mistake; Cas stiffens. "I suppose," he says, sounding like he's talking through his teeth, "that you are one of those that consider Edison an unparalleled genius and solely responsible for the major innovations in the use of electricity?"
"No."  He never had any feelings on Edison (lightbulb, right?), but he adds Edison to Mark Antony, Calvin, Augustine, the late Roman Republic, and Pope Stephen VI (among God so many others) that Cas has feelings about and God help you if you don't agree.  Cas's grudges aren't like other people's; they literally last forever.  "Total dick, right?  I get you.  Ichabod has a power plant; can we, I don't know, build one here?"
"I don't know how," Cas says shortly, expression closing unexpectedly.  "However, it's been added to my list for further research."
The List, he means, because it's not only capitalized, it may be underlined.  The origin of the List, from what Dean can tell, was the medical equipment needed for Dean's fever and underwent an  expansion due to Dean's (in retrospect, maybe a little harsh) reflections on life lived in Chitaqua followed by Home Improvement Weeks One and Two.  That part may be considered his fault, fine, but the rest of it was Cas having free time while Dean slept, an entire militia camp to do with as he saw fit, and the undeniable fact that Cas needs occupation like other people need to breathe.
(See: building a new mess, holy shit they're building a new mess.  When did this happen?)
Like mapping the state in forty fucking thousand colors and custom designing his own drugs and alcohol, organizing a militia camp falls right into Cas's anal retentive skillsets.  In a way Dean can't quite articulate, he also thinks it's also re-introduced Cas to humanity and his own mortality in a way that let him learn more than all the ways he was helpless before it.  
(In the back of his mind, Dean's greatest worry wasn't that he couldn't eventually get Cas to do the job given time, but that Cas would have a drug-and-Eldritch-Horror-fueled nervous breakdown in the meantime watching Dean fuck up his lovingly designed report storage system, meticulously detailed duty roster, immaculately organized patrol schedule, and the master notebook from hell that is the blueprint of everyone's life in Chitaqua. He really did want Cas to do it of his own free will, but he has to admit he didn't want to have to defend his life until Cas finally gave up and took over again.)
Looking around the cabin (and thinking of the newest addition to Chitaqua: a cheerful strings of lights greeted him on the main path through the camp strung on industrial wire between newly installed posts), he guiltily takes back his comparison of Ichabod and Chitaqua.  Sure, Ichabod has an electric grid and dvd players (and knows how to make food from its ground or animal base), but in Chitaqua, he has a lawn that the Indiana suburbs would kill for, camp-wide night lights, kick-ass wards that could keep out the end of reality itself, and a cabin with a door to come home to, within which his best friend contemplates their power situation and makes fucking amazing stew.  And apparently soon will have a whole new mess.
"That what you're working on now?" he asks, glancing at the laptop; at this point, he wouldn't be surprised at all to see notes about a DIY power plant that runs on air or cold fusion or magic or something. 
"No, this is some potential alterations to the patrol schedule ." Cas glances briefly at the screen with an expression that Dean avoids identifying for his own sanity.  "Currently, the team leaders are engaged in copying their reports onto the computer for easier reference when they have time.  I was speaking to Chuck, and he suggested creating a database.  He explained the principles, and we're going to work on a model, when I better understand what that should be."
Considering the reports now need their own room, that's not the worst idea he's heard this week, though the word 'database' coming out of Cas's mouth is alarming just on principle. "Huh."
"Being able to quickly search for patterns in attacks when they begin again will be invaluable." He gives Dean a wry look.  "Yes, I can remember everything, but it takes time that could be used more productively on more immediate concerns."  
Reaching over, Dean picks up the topmost report (printed) and almost drops it when he realizes he only got the top quarter of the stapled together mass.  Dragging it with an effort across the coffee table, he reads the name on the front with a real lack of surprise.  Goddamn Phil.  "How long--"
"Eighteen thousand words," Cas admits, looking at it with an expression Dean hopes to God means he's getting the problem here. "Perhaps you shouldn't read that."
Well, now he kind of has to.  Giving Cas a silencing look, he starts to flip through the pages, skimming for 'sun', 'moon', or 'Machiavellian' (because Phil's issues require literary references now) before Cas finally sighs and says, "Page eight."
Dean looks up warily.  "How bad?"
"I think you're overreacting to what's obviously an attempt at creativity in reporting."  Cas hesitates, eyes flickering down to the report warily, and Dean grimly finds page eight and starts from the top paragraph.
"You're fucking with me."
"Dean--"
He looks up at Cas incredulously.  "The sun is 'spreading its capricious beams' across all of Babylon--Babylon? Seriously?--while the moon weeps crystalline tears in lonely solitude?"
"I'm not denying his sanity may be in question," Cas mutters, closing his eyes.  "And I certainly don't have a great deal of solitude.  Alicia's here almost every day when she's off-duty so Andy and Kat can fornicate in the semi-privacy of Amber's bed now that Brenda's is less available, and Joseph and Melanie--"
"Not," Dean grinds out, flipping the report shut, "the point."  For why should it return but to leave again, as its nature compels it so, and its preference, too?: what the fuck?  Honest to God, if he and Cas were actually fucking, a punch to the face would be in Phil's immediate future.  This is ridiculous; who the hell thinks it’s a good idea to accuse their commander via shitty metaphor of cheating on his boyfriend in hopes of getting the boyfriend for himself? While he's gone on camp business?  "Cas…"
Cas opens his eyes, dark brown hair falling in his eyes, and Dean finds himself distracted by the way Cas reaches with absent irritation to push his hair back behind his ear again.  
"…talk to him," Cas is saying, and Dean jerks his attention back to--they're talking about Phil, right. "Though what I'm supposed to say...."
"What, you've never turned anyone down?"  
"Not often, the camp is limited in alternatives.  When I do, however, I generally wait until I'm actually propositioned and not via blank verse in an official camp document."  With a few key clicks, Cas closes the laptop, gently easing it aside with the reverence due to a major religious artifact, and (reluctantly, Dean thinks resentfully), gives Dean his full attention. "So how was--I thought you meant to stay in Ichabod until tomorrow evening?"
Dean wishes his watch still worked, or he was at least wearing it so he could give it a significant look.  "Thanks for noticing."
"You're welcome," Cas answers seriously.  "Did something happen?"
"Amanda's been eating steak and gossips with Alison for justice." He waits a beat, adding casually, "Also, Ichabod's letting us start training new recruits there and will give us some to start off."
"What?"
"Paperwork from the town council's in my bag," Dean says, grinning at Cas's expression. "Amanda's recruiting as we speak.  Want me to grab it?"
Leaning back against the couch, Cas folds a leg against his chest.  "I'd rather hear it from you."
"Ichabod will give us twenty of their residents for the first class; in return, we don't recruit from the other towns quite yet, let them get used to the idea."  Cas nods, which Dean takes as a win.  "Also, we assign a team there, which I said we could probably do, so tell me we can actually do that?"
"We can do that," Cas assures him, not even looking at the laptop, though Dean's pretty sure he wants to.  "Actually, I was thinking that now that the team leaders and their regular teams have more experience in their positions, it might be a good time to start rotating other members of the camp into the teams to gain experience and assure their skills don't atrophy through lack of use." There's a brief hesitation before he adds, "Though admittedly, some of them--"
"--are better at other things," he agrees, thinking of Chuck and even Sheila and Freddy and Brenda.  No one came here who couldn't fight--or at least learn to once they got here--and Amanda kept everyone up on their training, so it's not a question of if they can or how good they are.  However, a few times observing Amanda when she implemented Cas's order for a full evaluation of everyone in the camp taught him that being able wasn't the same as being suited for it.  "That's the alternations you were working on?"
"Yes, but they're not yet complete," Cas admits.  "However, pending your approval--"
"Approved," Dean drones, rolling his eyes.
"--once they are, we can easily accommodate a team assigned to Ichabod to serve the communities we contracted with."  He fixes his eyes on the coffee table. "I assume Kamal is your choice to lead them during their time there or would you prefer an existing team? Or perhaps a rotation?"
"No, let Ichabod get to know one team at a time, especially since they'll be working pretty closely with patrol.  Amanda's commander there, she can tell us how he does," he replies without thinking.  "Especially if it's gonna be permanent."
Cas looks up sharply. "Permanent."
"Yeah." Dean gives himself a minute.  "So I met with the town council this afternoon--talked to them about recruiting, made a couple of changes to the original terms, nothing big, Tony took notes and printed me a copy.…" A little desperately, he looks around to see where he threw his bag.  "Wait a second and I'll get 'em from--"
"Dean," Cas says seriously, "did you indeed spread your capricious beams across Ichabod so as to get us better terms?"
Dean shuts his mouth so fast he almost bites his tongue.
"I wouldn't judge you, of course. But I would like to hear all about it." He smiles slowly, relaxing back against the couch, blue eyes dark.  "In detail.  People in relationships do that for each other, don't they?"
"Uh."  He licks his lips, but before he can remember what they were talking about--in no world would he be okay with Cas relating his sexcapades in detail, ever--Cas's gaze drops and he starts to laugh, shoulders shaking helplessly. 
Right.  "You're an asshole, for the record."
"For the record, you like me anyway."  Lifting his head, Cas wipes his eyes before making an effort to compose himself.  "You were saying something about the meeting with Ichabod's council."
Right, that's what they were talking about.  "You know," he says, starting to fake a yawn and stretching obnoxiously, "I'm really tired…."
"I apologize," Cas says sincerely, because sure, he'll buy that when his shoulders are still shaking.  "Tell me what happened with the town council."
"A permanent base in Ichabod."
Cas stills, expression going blank.  "A base?"
"If--you know, everything works out," Dean says hastily.  "The first group we train there, show everyone we're not crazy or indoctrinating the residents into being crazy or whatever, and--we get to stay.  For good."  He's still not sure what the hell happened during that meeting, but ten minutes in, Alison's haunted look abruptly melted into curiosity, and as it turns out, using a psychic as a barometer for a room is pretty goddamn useful.  Tony came up afterward (with his notes) to hug him, and being hugged by six and change of petroleum engineer with arms like oaks isn't something anyone sees coming.  "It was a weird meeting."
"What are the terms?"
"Commander gets a seat and a vote on Ichabod's council," he answers in relief, mentally pulling up the big ones he memorized to tell Cas. "Ichabod keeps its patrol, but they split patrol duty with us.  Ichabod gives us a couple of buildings and helps get them in shape, we trade equal labor to help them with getting more of the town livable; the labor we already promised from Chitaqua remains the same.  Alison and Tony are also contacting the other towns to offer to host their residents in Ichabod to fulfill the terms of our deal of teaching them the basics instead of us going to the other towns."  He pauses for Cas to say something, but nothing.  "Amanda already got them to help her remodel a YMCA or something for training, so we're ahead there."
"She would," is all Cas says, blue eyes looking into the middle distance.  "I assume you already spoke to her regarding the expansion of her duties?"
"Yeah, she was okay with it."  He pauses, then adds casually, "I brought back a copy of the terms, since like I told the council at the meeting, nothing's final until I talk to you."
Cas jerks his gaze back to Dean; shock is a very good look on him.
"In case," he continues smugly, "you had any objections.  So I could listen to them."
For a long moment, Cas just looks at him before licking his lips uncertainly.  "And argue, I assume?"
"And argue the shit out of it," he agrees, spying his bag by the door and getting to his feet.  "All night if we have to. Let me grab it and we'll go over the--what do you call 'em?--salient points.  I'll make more coffee while you read."
"Yes," Cas says. "I'd like to see them."
Using Tony's notes as a reference point and chewing the hell out of a pen, Cas makes fast work of skimming the additions to the original contract--pending what the other towns say, which on a guess, is going to be a hearty hell yes--and then the terms of the newer one.  
"You think Joe should look it over before we sign?" Dean asks when Cas sits back, wondering distractedly if he should tell him there's a smear of ink on his lower lip.  One thing you can say about having a former angel involved in the process of reading a contract; they do know what to look for when it comes to shitty loopholes. 
"No," Cas answers, shaking his head.  "It's straightforward enough to cover the three month trial period.  If it becomes permanent, Joe can review the terms then, but I doubt they'll be anything we disagree with."
"Cool."  Setting down his cup, Dean pulls it across the table and flips to the last page, holding out his hand.  "Pen, Cas."
"Oh."  Giving the cratered lid a confused look (like it wasn't just between his teeth), he hands it over, and Dean scrawls his (honestly, terrible) signature at the bottom before turning it and sliding it across the table to Cas, offering the pen when Cas looks at it in bewilderment. "What?"
"Sign it."
Cas looks baffled, but at least he takes the pen. "Why?"
"Because it's your job," he answers patiently and it's only with an effort he manages not to laugh at Cas's expression. "Officially.  So put your name on the nice piece of paper below mine."
Cas looks between Dean and the pen before focusing on the paper in front of him again. Biting his lip, he hesitates before signing just below Dean in his ridiculously flawless script.  Swallowing hard, Dean reads the name: Castiel Singer, Chitaqua.  
He chews his lip.  "Is that--"
"Yeah," Dean answers, clearing his throat hastily.  "This is exactly what you use it for."
Cas gazes down at the page for a long time before straightening the pages and carefully setting the contract on top of the reports before looking at Dean, smiling faintly.  "Would this be the correct time to congratulate you on convincing a town that less than a month ago were still wondering whether we planned to kill them to invite us to live among them and offer up their residents for recruitment?"
He shrugs, wondering if it's getting hot in here or something.  "It's only a start--"
"If you count every victory in what it lacks, this is going to be a very depressing war," Cas interrupts.  "It's already depressing, so trust me, it doesn't need your assistance."
"Jesus, when did you get all zen about this shit?" Dean demands.  "Hopeless war, end times, transcendental orgies--"
"Beef stew," Cas points out, which okay, fine.  "Transcendental orgies?"
"What's a Maharishi?"
Cas's eyes widen.  "Who--"
"Zoe needs one percent or something to make it work."
"One percent of a community in transcendental meditation can cause a change in reality, and please, please, please don't tell me what she's trying to accomplish," Cas breathes, closing his eyes with a wince.  "It seemed like such a good idea at the time."
"I think we both know what she was trying to accomplish with all that incense," he says gloatingly.  "You were pretty stoned, huh?"
"My first successful batch of LSD," he admits, pained.  "You're gossiping with your soldiers?"
"Like either of us have room to talk there.  Sexual healing crystals, by the way?"  He grins maliciously.  "You gotta tell me about that sometime, unless you want me picking it up on the rough streets of Chitaqua.  Who knows what they'll tell me?"
"They'll tell you the truth," Cas answers in resignation.  "Let's return to the far less unsettling subject of the end of the world.  Or Ichabod.  You spoke to Amanda regarding training the new recruits?  Did she have any concerns?"
So when they finally get around to finishing hippo porn, Dean's got a fun new subject to explore.  
"She wants you down there to approve her choice of recruits." Cas opens his mouth, but Dean spent part of the drive back planning for exactly this reaction.  "Look, you don't have to train them yet, and I'm not asking you to, but she learned this from you and you're the only person who knows how it works.  God knows I don't, and if you don't do this, she's gonna ask me, the person who supposedly helped invent it.  You see where this is going?"
"Amanda is extremely competent…."  
"She wants her instructor to tell her she's doing it right," Dean says reasonably.  "Chitaqua's commander needs you to become familiar with our allies. And I want you to meet new people and try new things.  You're doing this, so pick one."
Cas sighs noisily, and there's a definite similarity between his and Amanda's pout.  "If you're going to utilize a pretentious third person singular to make your point…."
"'Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's'," Dean quotes with relish, "'and unto God the things that are God's.'  Now I'm being pretentious.  Well?"
Cas' mouth twitches reluctantly.  "I won't ask which one you consider yourself; in this case, ignorance is indeed bliss.  You're right, of course."
"Teresa promised to make us migas," he adds temptingly.  "You'll love 'em, promise."
Abruptly, he's the focus of Cas's undivided attention.  "Who is Teresa?"
"Manuel's sister and the other leader of Ichabod's patrol," he answers. "She--"
"You didn't mention her before."
"I just met her yesterday.  She was on circuit or something to the other towns," he says defensively and wonders why the hell he feels defensive.  "Also, she's Alison's partner."
He can almost see Cas mentally scrolling through Joe's reports and finding nothing.  "What an interesting omission."
"Like I said, she been visiting their trade partners for the last three weeks, which completely explains why no one talked about her," Dean says.  "For what, who knows?"
"Alison's partner in the romantic sense, I assume?" Dean nods, resting his chin in his hand.  "And co-leader of Ichabod's patrol with her brother.  So concealing her existence was probably not entirely out of concern for our reaction the presumed sexuality of Ichabod's mayor and its patrol leader?"
He's not surprised at all that Cas picked up humanity's mixed feelings regarding sexuality after two years, but he hopes it was either in theory (infinite knowledge?) or at least before he came to Chitaqua. Considering their population, if there were problems, he thinks he would have heard something by now, but he's never forgotten Vera's remark about straight guys, either.  When she gets back, they may need to have another talk, see if there's anything she wasn't ready to tell him before.  Just to be sure.
"Anyway, Amanda's been working with Manuel and the patrol, and after a morning with Teresa, she's pretty sure they're both hunters."
Cas raises his eyebrows.  "Interesting."
"Gets better," he adds.  "Teresa's also the one that designed their wards."
"You mentioned Manuel didn't know much about their ward system," Cas says. "That would be the reason why, I assume.  So she was more forthcoming?"
"Not exactly."  At Cas's curious look, he sighs.  "I figured I'd just, you know, observe her doing them."
Cas's eyebrows climb higher.  "Were you any good at it?"
"Pretty sure she noticed," he admits reluctantly.  "Or so dinner conversation about the creepiness of stalkers who don't just come down and say hi seemed to imply."
"So surveillance practice might also be useful," is all Cas says, but Dean can hear the mockery and resents it. "Did you learn anything else?"
"They're definitely similar to the ones I saw when I was on the border," he answers.  "And I'm pretty sure that she figured out that I recognized them."
Cas raises an eyebrow, waiting.
"Amanda's about one bad day from stealing their weapons," he says obliquely.  "You know how to forge knives by any chance?"
"In theory, yes; practically speaking, no, and I have no desire to find out," Cas answers patiently. "Why?"
"What would you use a ceramic knife for, enough to carry it standard?"
"Other than the excellent edge--"
"Harder than hardened steel, doesn't need much sharpening, great for killing things, yeah, I got that part."
"Ritual magic," Cas confirms, and Dean fights down alarm with an effort. "If you're very committed to your vocation and desire near-surgical purity as well as neutrality to avoid interference with anything you're doing or the materials you're working with, it's the most obvious choice.  It literally can't interfere; for all intents and purposes, it's utterly null."
Cas doesn't look too worried, but he's gotta check.  "Anything else?"
"If you need to kill something and require a weapon that won't interfere with what you put on the blade to do just that, it's irreplaceable," Cas says.   "However, for hunters, it would need to be custom designed and treated to provide higher tensile strength; ceramic can be very brittle."
Until now, he was trying to pretend he was above Amanda's avarice, but Jesus.  "Where would you get one of those?"
"I have six, four with six inch blades and two ten and a half inches," Cas answers, because of course he does.  "Certain extremely complicated and time-consuming rituals require a purified blade so it won't interact with the materials.  Purification is even more time-consuming, tedious, and most importantly, obsolete, as ceramics have been invented, so it's become the preferred medium."
Six.  "You needed six for one of those rituals?"
"No, I've never done one of those," Cas replies dismissively.  "I just like bladed weapons, so I collect them when I find them.  Hunter-grade ceramics aren't easy to find; usually, the blade is also brittle and breaks easily."
So that explains the serial killer vibe going on in the closet-armory.  "Teresa's was definitely custom made for her, Amanda says.  So guessing here, she's not a novice."
"Did you see something that worried you?"
"No," he answers honestly, because it's true.  If Alison and Manuel--and by extension, Ichabod--hadn't made such an effort to hide her, he would have been impressed. Watching her ease with the wards, the automatic, practiced way she refreshed them displayed her skill and familiarity with using them better than words could.  "I don't like they didn't tell us about her."
"They probably have reason to be wary of strangers," Cas offers, and something in his voice reminds Dean of Alison when she talked about secrets.  "I don't think any conclusions can be drawn on the available evidence."
"So sounds like you have a couple of reasons for a field trip to Ichabod," Dean says casually.  "Help Amanda out, check out the town, tell me what you think.  Day after tomorrow sounds good, what do you think?"
To his credit, Cas doesn't fight the inevitable. "Joseph isn't due to return until the end of the week, as he's making a stop in Kansas City to retrieve more from the military positions there.   Melanie will be back tomorrow from her patrol route, however, and she can supervise the camp in our absence."
Dean supposes he could feel more like a manipulative dick in getting Cas to agree to go to Ichabod, but he can't see how.  He wonders if it's better or worse that he feels guilty about it and still has no intention of giving Cas an out.
"It'll be fun," he says, putting all the enthusiasm he can manage into his voice and is impressed despite himself, considering how little he actually feels.  Let this go okay, he thinks grimly; if it doesn't, he'll make it okay, somehow. He'll think of something.  "Alison has really good coffee."
"I do like coffee," Cas agrees, much like someone on their way to the electric chair expresses their enjoyment of long, lonely walks down endless halls. Picking up his cup, he starts to take a drink before his eyes fix on Dean's right hand as he flattens it on the coffee table.  "Is it bothering you?"
"It's fine.  Just did more writing today than usual"  He makes a fist, frowning at the faint, barely-there vibration, then holds it up mid-air for Cas to see the unmistakable tremor. It's definitely getting better, but the end of day tremor is still a thing, and at this point, he's pretty sure that's not going away anytime soon.  Trying to write legibly with his left is still a work in progress, which may explain why Cas was so enthusiastic when introducing him to his personal laptop.  "Hey, any chance we can get away tomorrow afternoon for some time on the range?"
"Of course," Cas answers. "Anything specific you want to concentrate on this time or do you want to continue your progress with semi-automatics?"
"Drawing with my left when I'm carrying right." Meeting Cas's eyes, he sees immediate understanding; for no reason (for many reasons), he's not down with carrying left in public quite yet.  "And switching when my right gets tired but before the tremor starts so I can give it some rest."  So it won't be fucking useless in a fight when he needs it.
"Can you tell when the tremor's about to begin?"  
He thinks about it. "When I'm not distracted, I think so, yeah."
"And you need to be able to do so when you are distracted," Cas agrees, eyes flickering to Dean's hands and narrowing.  "Once you're certain of how it feels when you should switch, it's simply a matter of reflex training.  Sarah can watch the camp tomorrow afternoon while we're away."
"Works for me."  Before Dean can suggest more coffee--maybe on the porch--Cas reaches for his laptop, flipping on the screen again.  Okay.  "So--got some work to do?"
"Finish the alterations to the patrol schedule," Cas says, typing in his password on the obnoxiously blue Windows start-up screen.  "If we're leaving in two days, I need to have this completed.  Why?"
Seeing Cas already lost in the wonders of spreadsheets, he sighs, getting to his feet.  "No reason. I'm gonna go unpack."
@@@@@@
--Day 120--

Dean spends the morning being a good leader and skimming the most recent reports (short version: there are no new ways of saying nothing's going on, but they sure as hell try), checking in with Chuck and Brenda, and watching Cas and his laptop bond like a lot.  As yet, he hasn't figured out a legit objection to its existence, but he's sure as hell inspired to keep trying; this is getting ridiculous.
When they drop casually by the infirmary--Alicia's on patrol, which means no one's allowed to get injured and condoms are being distributed by an utterly miserable Chuck--Cas presents to his horrified gaze a red wrist brace (firetruck red, holy shit) like a gift you'd give to someone you hate and want dead.
"For use on the range," Cas explains, capturing Dean's right hand and shoving it on without ceremony before leaving Dean to contemplate how anything can be that goddamn red.  "Alicia recommended it to give your wrist support as you rebuild the muscles in your right arm."
Dean hates it, hates it; he hates it even more when he realizes it's actually helping. The brace holds his wrist and forearm steady, reducing the strain considerably and making it a lot easier to concentrate on his aim.  That doesn't change the fact it's a red that makes all other reds crawl away in shame and they gotta do something about that.
His arm and hand are both still a work in progress; regaining his strength and range is both slow and incredibly tedious, and how much he'll get back is still up in the air.  Cas was brutally honest regarding the combined effects of nerve damage and the potential for long-term paralysis of those muscle groups damaged by the infection, which Dean appreciates; knowing that, it's a lot easier to believe Cas when he tells him how much progress he's made.  
If he's honest with himself, he knows he probably won't ever get his right back to what it was before the fever--Cas never said it, but he figures he didn't think he needed to--but weirdly enough, it doesn't bother him nearly as much as he thought it would.  Remembering the day he first asked Cas about it--still stuck in bed between fevers with nothing to do but stare at that goddamn bandage, unable to imagine how the fuck he could be a hunter after this--he wonders what the hell he was thinking.  Had to be the multiple fevers fucking with his head or something.
Taking his last shot, he lowers the nine-millimeter, clicking the safety on and replacing it in its holster as he stretches his fingers carefully, aware of a sense of satisfaction as Cas's gaze flickers over the targets approvingly.  "How'd I do?"
"Flawless, of course," he answers.  How's your hand?"  
He holds up it up with a grin; he can feel the strain, but the tremor hasn't started yet. "Got it again."
"Excellent.  You should take a break and rest it before you try for a fifth time," Cas answers, tipping his head toward the edge of the orchard, where he set up shop with a small armory (in case of wandering demons), several bottles of water, the remains of lunch, and snacks in an ice chest liberated from the mess, and those of Vera's records related to Dean's injury, all spread out on a worn blanket beneath a canopy of bare branches.  
It's exactly what it looks like: a really well-armed picnic.
Someone (probably Joe) explained the concept to Cas in detail, since from what Dean's worked out, his camp thinks going to the range to shoot targets is their equivalent of date night (date afternoon?).  Cas, being Cas, apparently ran with it, if the ice chest Brenda offered to him with a knowing smile when Cas insisted they stop at the mess before they left is any indication.
("I understand this is a custom among your people," Cas told him blandly when he got in the jeep after placing it, the blanket, and a bag in the backseat.  "I'm demonstrating my acquisition of human social skills as well as cultural sensitivity."
"Holy shit," Dean said from the passenger seat, a little awed.  "This thing's given you all new ways to fuck with people, hasn't it?"
"And to think," Cas said wistfully as he turns the ignition, "that it used to require effort on my part.  And this is socially acceptable as well.  If only I'd known.")
Dean can't really fault the shooting practice equals date, though; this definitely beats the shit out of a movie and dinner hands down, and Brenda's romantic soul is the reason there are cookies as well.  He assumes there's no wine in the camp or there'd have been a bottle tucked between the cold chicken and the container of butter-soaked sliced potatoes, because Brenda's like that.
Dropping down on the blanket against one of the apple trees, Dean retrieves a bottle of water as Cas finishes with his notes regarding Dean's latest triumph over adversity or whatever.  Like Alicia, Cas isn't allowed to write in Vera's actual records--there's added paper with Castiel written at the top, underlined twice--but he religiously updates it for her to read when she gets back.  
To his surprise, he finds himself looking forward to it, and not because of anything having to do with Alpha.  Unlike most of the camp even now, Vera's filters with him were eroded enough to be willing to say what others still won't, and he thinks he may finally have earned at least the benefit of the doubt from her.  More, he didn't have to be so careful with her; those weeks after the fever meant she probably knew him almost better than anyone but Cas.  Other than Cas and Joe, she's the closest to a friend he has here, and he misses her caustic commentary as much as the rare moments she forgot who he was and just enjoyed hanging out.
"Kamal is going to require an experienced team in Ichabod," Cas says, tucking away the folders in the bag where there's no laptop in evidence, which just means this day's almost perfect.  Except for the wrist brace, but he can fix that.  Paint it or something, maybe.  "Joseph's team made initial contact with the towns and are therefore familiar, and under Joseph's leadership, they've learned a great deal.  They'd be excellent candidates for transfer to an inexperienced team leader."
"You want to take Joe's team away from him?" Dean answers with as much horror and disappointment as he can muster, which isn't much; that's not a bad idea.
"If you wish to have Joseph as well--" Cas starts carefully.
"No, of course not; we need him here."  Joe's a good leader; showing the ropes to a whole new team would be right up his alley.  Getting him to go along with it is a different story; Dean's pretty sure 'lack of Leah' on his team is gonna be a dealbreaker, not that he pays attention to that kind of thing.  "We'll talk to him when he gets back, but I'm telling you now, he's gonna hate it."
"I understand the burdens of leadership include having to deal with your team leaders occasionally not speaking to you due to a sense of personal betrayal," Cas observes helpfully.  "It's a commonly known fact.  I'm surprised you haven't heard of it, considering I'm intimately acquainted with the phenomenon."
"Yeah, but that's different," Dean argues. "One, you don't care what anyone thinks, and two, you didn't like Kyle anyway."
"Ah," Cas says, nodding. "This would be a textbook illustration of the concept of nepotism and you embracing it.  I approve of your progress in corruption."
Dean settles for glaring how much this isn't nepotism, but people skills and being sensitive to your subordinates feelings so they don't shoot you instead of a werewolf.
"Offer him free choice of keeping one member and he'll concede," Cas says finally, looking amused.  "And then Sheila won't forget to add oil to the jeeps in passive-aggressive retaliation for taking her partner from her less than two months after they moved in together."
Dean winces; he forgot about Mike and Sheila.  "Pretty sure he'll pick Leah." At Cas's skeptical look, he cocks his head challengingly. "What are you willing to lose?"
"Winner names the forfeit," he answers immediately.  "Deal?"
"Deal."  Setting down the bottle, he strips off the brace to shake on it and winces when he tries to stretch his fingers.  No tremor, but the cramps sure as hell are trying to make up for it.  "Crap."
"Give me your hand," Cas says imperiously, removing a bottle of oil from the bag.  Squinting, he tries to read the faded label, but the herby smell when Cas opens it reassures him that this time, he isn't gonna go around smelling like flowers or something the rest of the day.  Seeing his relief, Cas rolls his eyes.  "Yes, I remembered this time, though why you'd object to lavender is a mystery."
Extending his hand, he starts to comment on Cas's seemingly endless collection of oils and then belatedly realizes the reason and their probable use before now.  Luckily, that train of thought is interrupted by Cas pouring a small amount onto his hand before his magic fingers go to work, and the only thing Dean can think about is the sheer relief as he starts to tease each knot loose.
"You're doing very well," he hears Cas say, thumb working steadily across his palm and leaving a trail of surrendered muscles behind.  He didn't think Cas could get better at this after that first time, but he was so very wrong; it's like he can sense what those muscles are doing and knows exactly what to do to make them stop, with truly amazing results.
He raises his eyebrows and just bites back a groan when Cas hits the sore spot in the webbing between his thumb and first finger.  It always tightens up fast and no amount of stretching it himself does jack shit to fix it. 
"Really?" he manages in what may or may not be a normal voice, but fuck if he cares; that feels incredible.
"It's been less than a month since you started regular practice on the range," Cas points out, thankfully oblivious to Dean's reaction to whatever magic he just performed on his knuckles, Jesus Christ.  "You've already increased your accuracy with your left to be almost equal to that of your right with both handguns and most of our rifles in your previous best range as well as increased your best range significantly.  You've proved you're a very fast learner; all that remains is the muscle training to make it automatic, which will doubtless progress as quickly as everything else you've done."
"The range isn't real time fighting," Dean argues half-heartedly, almost able to ignore the warm glow of pride at Cas's assessment.  Almost.
No matter what's going on in the camp, Cas is always on hand for a few hours on the range, and to his lack of surprise, Cas is actually a very good teacher.  His people skills might be for shit when it comes to social interactions, but he's good at combining clinical honesty with utter confidence, and while ruthless in making sure Dean does what he should--including mind-numbing amounts of practice in shit like drawing his gun without actually shooting it--he's of the positive reinforcement school of thought.  Dean doesn't want to speculate here, but he can say with certainty that Cas didn't get that from Dean Winchester (of the John Winchester School of Education: lots of yelling just to start), which means what he's seeing is probably at least partially due to Amy of Alpha.
"That's what reflexes are for," Cas answers dismissively, letting go of Dean's hand and wiping his hands meticulously clean before putting away the oil.  Dean just barely bites back the protest, mostly because he can't think of a reason to continue when his hand is so relaxed it's almost boneless.  "You've identified the point your right hand tires accurately four times so far.  One more time today should be sufficient after you've rested it for a little while longer."
Dean nods, taking another drink from his water bottle.  He's kind of been waiting for this.  "So there's something else I wanted to talk to you about."
"Oh?"
"Alison says you're a box," he says with relish.  "A cold box."
Cas stares at him for a long time, giving the general impression that Dean's sanity is in question.
"She was trying to read me."  Cas straightens so fast Dean thinks he heard something pop: so that's not good.  "And said it was like--that you were--"
"A box?"
"A cold box," Dean corrects him.  "You wear three layers when you go outside and socks to sleep, so how--"
"Since I'm not literally a six sided storage container, we can assume the cold is also metaphorical," Cas answers impatiently.  "Let's return to the far more interesting subject of Alison trying to read you.  The mayor of Ichabod is a psychic?"  
"And a clairvoyant."
"The mayor of Ichabod is a psychic and a clairvoyant?"
"Yeah, but--"
"To clarify: for over three weeks, you've been visiting a town whose mayor is a psychic--"
"I didn't know about that until a couple of days ago!" Dean interrupts; this isn't going like he expected.  "Cas--"
"And you didn't return immediately with those you stationed in Ichabod?" Cas asks him quietly, and Dean belatedly goes on full alert.  Last time he heard Cas sound like that, he was describing to Jeffrey his future as a living, decomposing wall ornament for Chitaqua.  "Do you realize--"
"She can't read my mind," Dean argues.  "She said I'm the first person that she met that she couldn't."  From Cas's expression, not only doesn't that help, it's probably word for word what everyone says when a psychic's manipulating them.  "It's not like that.  She tried and everything, but it doesn't work with me."  Also probably what everyone says when a psychic's manipulating them.  "Look, that's not the problem--"
"There's something else?"
"Give me a second!"  Okay, new plan: actually have one.  Alison's not a demon, just a vaguely antagonistic human psychic who looks like she doesn't get much sleep these days and has shitty dreams when she does.  "If I thought she was dangerous, I would have brought everyone back and ended the deal."
"And as you felt she wasn't," and the edge in his voice is unmistakable, "it wasn't important enough to remember to tell me last night."
"Cas--"
"You said if I agreed to take this position in Chitaqua that you would always listen to my objections, even if you disagreed," Cas says flatly.  "If your solution is to avoid telling me what you plan to do so I don’t have the opportunity to object, however, consider this my resignation--"
"That's not what I was doing!"  He didn't even think of that, Jesus.  "She's human--"
"Humans are the most dangerous predators my Father ever created," Cas interrupts, still in that unsettlingly flat voice. "If you believe otherwise--"
"You'll lock me up in the camp again?"
He regrets it the minute he says it, and regrets it even more when he sees Cas's face just before he looks away.  The words seem to hang over them in the quiet of the orchard in endless repetition: he'd kill for a goddamn breeze right now.
"I didn't mean--"
"Yes," Cas says quietly, "you did." 
Shoot targets, eat lunch, shoot some more, get a kick-ass hand massage, spend some time with his best friend without half his attention on that goddamn laptop or something else having to do with the camp: it wasn't like he was asking for a lot here.  Yet somehow--against all odds--he managed to fuck that up, too.
"Perhaps I should have clarified myself on this issue prior to today," Cas says finally, in the most painfully careful voice that Dean's ever had the misfortune to listen to.  "You were correct; I was trapping you here."
He sucks in a breath. "I didn't say that."
"You didn't need to," he answers, looking at him, all expression smoothed away.  "It's exactly what I was doing and I apologize.  I'd hoped the last two weeks had made that clear when I raised no objections to you spending time in Ichabod, but apparently clarification was needed.  You're happier now, and I do approve of that very much."  He settles back, looking at Dean attentively, in case this wasn't already a nightmare in the making and it needed the help.  "Your judgment regarding Alison is superior to my own, of course.  If you feel she's safe, then there's no more to be said on the subject.
Dean would love a demon to attack them right now: he'd take an imp with a chip on its shoulder at this point.  Give Cas a way to work out some of that aggression non-passively and him some time to figure out what the hell he missed: everyone wins.  That's not happening, so--
"She wants to meet you."  Cas's expression of interested attention couldn't be better; Dean almost buys it himself.  "She didn't used to be a psychic, that part's new."
Yeah, nothing.
"Started about four months ago, which hey, is it just me, or does that coincide with another weird event that happened around that time?"  He searches Cas's face and thinks he may see a flicker.  "She said it was when the attacks stopped on her town."
Cas is silent for what feels like years, blue eyes distant, and Dean forces himself to be patient.  This is definitely an improvement over earlier, when he was pretty sure Cas was about to go hotwire the jeep and pay a visit to Ichabod, which is not how he thinks Alison and Cas should first meet, but not anything like he'd hoped.
"You wouldn't be aware of this," Cas says finally, "because in general, it's utterly unimportant to know, but roughly twenty-six point eight percent of the human population has latent psychic abilities, and that's during periods of time you aren't engaged in an active war against evil.  The percentage is even higher among hunters and are almost guaranteed in families who have been hunting for three generations or more.  It's not that unusual."
Dean gives Cas a look to remind him he really doesn't need to know this or honestly care.
"Of course." Cas settles himself into educational mode, which is a lot less annoying than it used to be.  "Generally, latent abilities are only awakened by an extremely traumatic event, either personal or global, or long-term exposure to supernatural influences."
"So--going with that--the global event we call the Apocalypse started years ago.  If it was gonna happen, it should have happened then, right?"
"The first time it started was years ago."
Dean is halfway through his nod before 'first time' penetrates.  "'First time'?"
"Yes," Cas confirms.  "In a sense--"
"You think we're on our second Apocalypse?"  Okay, this is new information. "So how'd the first one end?"
"With Dean's death in Kansas City," Cas answers.
"What?"
"Technically speaking, while prophecy didn't require a Dean Winchester specific to this world being present, you are still a different Dean Winchester."  
Dean blinks his inability to translate that into 'makes sense'. 
"Your arrival might not have caused a continuance, but instead a--reboot," Cas says, brightening. "Like when Hollywood released movies involving the Hulk twice in five years' time under different titles, starring different actors, and with different continuities, yet were equally terrible."
Dean shuts his mouth.
"I found Edward Norton's interpretation far superior, however," Cas continues thoughtfully in the spirit of being a goddamn freak.  "The point stands, however."
"That this is kind of the equivalent of a Hollywood remake of the original Apocalypse?"  Oh God, he's been around Cas too long, that makes sense.  "Second verse, almost but not quite identical to the first."
"It's not as if this has ever happened before," Cas adds almost apologetically.  "There are other possibilities--"
"Let's stick with the one I understand," Dean interrupts before Cas actually tells him all about them.  "So--going with that--why would Alison be affected by the remake and not the original?"
"If she's telling the truth, I'm not sure." Cas frowns.  "What did she say happened?"
"She said that day was bad--off, everyone felt it, and she was napping in her office when something woke her up." He hesitates, but he's gotta know. "She said she felt like--like something she forgot about happened, she didn't miss it, and everything would be okay.  The psychic thing showed up the next morning."  Cas's expression flickers.  "She's clairvoyant, but she can't remember what she dreams, just--something like knowing she can do something to avoid it or something."
Cas hesitates. "I can't be certain--"
"She may have dreamed about me coming here."  Saying it out loud makes it real the way it wasn't before.  "She just doesn't remember it."
"It's possible," Cas admits. "But until I talk to her myself, that's only a guess, and even then, there's no way to be certain."  He gives Dean a searching look.  "She told you she can't read you?"
He nods.  "She said I'm the only one she can't." 
"You believe her?"
"Once she told me what she was, I knew what to look for." Exposure to Sam and Pamela motivated him to learn how to look for retrospective signs, and there aren't any he can find.  A experienced psychic could probably get around that, but he trusts his instincts, and they all tell him she's not just new at this, she's bad at it.  "I could be wrong, but I don't think so.  Any way you can tell?"
Cas tucks a leg against his chest, chin on his knee.  "How did she describe what she sensed when she tried to read you?"
"She said you were a box--"
"A metaphor, obviously, though not the one I would have chosen," he says a little impatiently.  "What does that have to do with--" He stops short.  "Why did she mention me at all?"
"I'd go with weird-ass ocean myself," Dean offers, wondering why Cas looks startled.  "She said she slid by me to you, the cold box, and that's why she couldn't read me."  
Cas's eyes widen.  "She described it as 'sliding'?  That exact word?"
"Slip and slide central: not just a fun summer activity anymore."  Dean thinks of the doorway of their cabin, the invisible symbols marching up and down the frame.  "Is it just me or does that sound really familiar?"
"She's telling the truth" Cas says slowly. "She can't read you." 
Dean goes through everything he remembers about what Cas told him about the wards in  the cabin and tries to decide what part he understood enough to even ask about so he'll have half a chance of understanding the answer.  
"I thought that only happened if I was in the cabin and sleeping there every night," Dean starts. "And I'd be invisible."
"For the wards to work, yes, though recently it seems that the 'every night' is no longer applicable," Cas answers absently.  "I meant to tell you about that;  it seems they accept your absences as temporary--at least, those of four days, which has been your longest time away--"  He makes a face, shaking his head. "However, the wards aren't what's doing this."
Dean fights the urge to groan.  Of course it's not gonna be that easy.  "Just tell me."
"All the wards do is create an illusion that affects all five senses in corporeal beings within these four walls, making you effectively invisible," Cas explains, getting a look eerily reminiscent of Sam when he reads too much and forgets Dean doesn't care.  "Contamination is what gives the wards the object to tell their senses why they can't see you, that being that you don’t exist independently of me."  In a stunning display of personal growth, Cas actually stops to think about that.  "That sounds terrible."
"Didn't think anything could top 'spoils of war'," Dean agrees, so over the entire 'owns me' thing that it's actually kind of depressing.  "So you're saying psychics can't read me even when I'm not in the cabin?  Because of the contamination thing?"
"If her description of it as 'sliding to a box'--"
"Cold box."
"--'cold box'," Cas agrees, and yeah, that's definitely an edge, "then no, she can't.  I assumed the sigils in the wards were entirely responsible for the mental component, but it seems that contamination itself causes that."  To Dean's surprise, Cas's mouth curves in a faint smile.  "What she said--it fits how a human might perceive me now.  A human psychic can't read an angel's mind, even in a vessel; our true form makes that…."
"A shitty idea," Dean finishes for him, remembering Pamela with a wince.  "But you don't have Grace now."
"Which is why she wasn't physically injured," Cas tells him. "There are other dangers, however.  Remember how I described what happened in Kansas City when I tried to--"
"--see all things and bled out your ears?" Dean asks incredulously, widening his eyes at Cas's frown.  "Sounds familiar, yeah.  You said it was like too much information….oh.  Your mind would be like that for her if she tried to read you?"
"Infinity isn't something the human mind can deal with well if at all," Cas says.  "At best, the sheer glut of information would be the equivalent of white noise and therefore utterly inexplicable, if very loud, in a manner of speaking.  At worst…."
"Kill her in a rupturing her brain kind of way, complete with bleeding ears?"  No, he's not over it and never will be, thanks for asking.
"Nothing so terrible," Cas assures him.  "Insanity, possibly permanent. Assuming she wanted to survive the inevitable migraine of trying to interpret infinity and failing, and I wouldn't."
Oh yeah, much better.  "Right." 
"I assume by her description that when she realized what was happening, she stopped trying to read you before discovering exactly where she was going," Cas continues thoughtfully.  "Excellent decision on her part: at this distance, and being unaware of what she was doing, I'm not sure if I'd even be able to sense it or be able to stop her before she was injured."
"She guessed it was you, though," Dean says deliberately.  "After she got what you were out of Amanda's mind the other night, I mean."
Cas raises his eyebrows. "Interesting, considering I doubt a new psychic would have so much experience with angels--or Fallen, as the case might be--to come to that conclusion."
"Especially since you didn't know it yourself," Dean points out casually. "Weird, huh?"
"When did you say her partner Teresa returned to Ichabod?"
That's what he was thinking. "Night before she told me."  Dean cocks his head.  "Maybe a coincidence."
"It's not." Cas reaches for his half-empty bottle of water and takes a drink, eyes distant.  "Do Amanda and the others know yet?"
"No.  I told Alison I'd talk to you first, decide how we handle this."  Abruptly, Cas starts to smile.  "What?"
"If Alison can't read you, that means that no psychic can," he answers. "That may extend to demons as well.  I assumed the sigils you were wearing and Jeffrey's distraction were the reason, but this would simplify things considerably."  Dean looks at him blankly.  "That means no psychic--or demon--can read out of your mind who you are."
"I knew that," he says immediately, ignoring Cas's snort.  "Okay, not all of it.  You mean even demons won't know who I am?"
"Jeffrey isn't the brightest specimen," Cas admits, then looking more cheerful, adds, "However, the next demon we encounter, we'll test it before I kill it so it can't report back."
How to put Cas in a good mood: imminent demon-killing, or remembering Cas's enthusiasm with the wards, experimenting with bonus demon-killing.  He really hopes Teresa's not on the wrong side of the line on use and abuse of magic; Cas really needs a buddy to talk to about this kind of shit who understands it, and while Dean's more than willing when it comes to the former, he won't pretend he'll ever manage the latter.
"Told you Ichabod was interesting," Dean says a little smugly.  
"You did.  We should finish your last round," Cas says abruptly, getting to his feet and gazing critically to the west, where the sun is almost visibly drooping behind its cover of clouds.  "It's getting late."
"Got things to do back at the camp?" Dean asks, not quite able to keep the edge out of his voice.  
Cas doesn't notice.  "Nothing that couldn't be delayed until evening," he answers.  "Are you ready or do you need more time?"
Dean pastes on a smile: good to know where he ranks these days.  "Let's get it over with."

--Day 121--

Dean wakes up to an empty cabin where breakfast--still warm--waits for him patiently on the stove;  Cas (and his laptop) are nowhere to be found.  A note would have been nice, he thinks a little resentfully as he makes his way through oatmeal and Chitaqua toast (with fruit), because apparently Alicia's magic cooking skills introduced Cas to the first and only food he's ever liked and now it's standard.  Then again, apparently Cas is experimenting with cooking these days (seriously, the stew was amazing), so maybe he's picking up a recipe-based way to interact with people.
Deliberately leaving the dishes on the table--and feeling kind of like a dick and going back to at least put up the food--he looks around the small cabin and tries to figure out what to do.  Watching Cas work half the evening isn't as much fun as it sounds like, and it didn't sound fun in the first place.
Seeing the box of reports he has yet to get through--they seem to be breeding or something--he drags himself to the couch and takes them out, not even surprised to see these have sticky colored flags attached to indicate team and numbered flags for district, and the new standard formatting (12 pt Times New Roman) includes a header--a header--of name, date, team, and location.  He's also not surprised that despite a full box, there aren't as many as they appeared at first glance.  Dividing them up by team, it's pretty goddamn obvious that Phil's escalation is speeding up now that he's got a keyboard, and his typing speed may not be much slower than Cas's.
Putting them in order of most annoying to least--otherwise, he'd never finish if he didn't have something to look forward to--Dean settles himself with Sarah's team and grimly starts reading.
An hour and a half later, Dean pulls the last three weeks' worth of reports--Cas organizes the boxes by time, which slows him down--and recklessly pulls Phil's, Alicia's, and James' from their boxes, laying them out in date order on the coffee table, and starts from the beginning. 
He asked if he wanted Joe in Ichabod. You're happier now, Cas said.  Right to his face.  He meant it.
He hopes to God this is, actually, just another product of Phil's fucked up imagination, but on  a guess, no one's as good as a crazy-ass poet-stalker when it comes to knowing exactly the right metaphor and when to use it.
Chuck once told him that when Cas didn't want to be found, he wasn't.  From experience, Dean's found this true, though the number of times it's been deliberate he can count on one hand since that night in Dean's cabin. 
At least those that aren't a side-trip to a certain unknown location where Cas placed this Dean's ashes, and he's pretty happy not knowing where that is and would be a lot happier not knowing the signs of an imminent visit. Some things stick with you, though, and once he recognized it, he couldn't ignore it, but working out the trigger is still a mystery, and not one he's sure he wants to solve.
This, thank God, isn't any of those times; this is Cas being Cas, who can't stand being bored and needs things to do like other people need to breathe.  Maps, home improvement weeks, patrol routes and reports, building a new mess….perching on top of a twelve foot post like it ain't no thing on the main path through the camp toward the garage, patiently stringing industrial wire peppered with lights through some kind off--ring?  Brace?--with James and Zack looking up in horror, their attention split with--oh God, Mira's on the other post, what the fuck?
Dean stops short of the path, eyes flickering to the concrete base and wondering sickly if Nate's mysterious construction skills are up to date on how to make that so things (holding Cas twelve feet in fucking air) don't fall to their deaths (or Mira, of course).
"Got it," Mira shouts, one foot braced precariously on metal ring as she raises a hand with a thumbs-up at Cas.  "It's secured, now what?"
Before Dean's disbelieving eyes, Cas leans over impossibly--there's no way he can hold his balance like that--and tugs the wire firmly before nodding.  "It's secure. We're done."  Twisting in place, Cas looks down at James patiently. "Check them again before we get down."
Tearing his gaze from Cas, Dean sees James (who may or may not look a little ashen every time his gaze drifts to Mira) holding what looks a remote; when he pushes the button, the entire left side of main pathway lights up, and even from the ground, he can see Cas smile.  Twisting in place--Jesus, Dean loses a year off his light just watching that--he gives James and Zack a nod of satisfaction.
"Well done.  Now we will no longer trip over our own feet at night, and everyone will need to revive their skills in subterfuge if they don't want to be caught sneaking between cabins." Zack turns a very, very bright red, which Dean assumes means someone's walk of shame from Nate's cabin of morning regret will no longer be secret if it ever was.  "It will be good practice. Turn them off."
It only hits Dean that there aren't any ladders when Cas slides off the post, dangling briefly from one hand, before dropping to the ground so smoothly he doesn't even realize it's over until Cas straightens from a crouch, blue eyes finding Dean before he goes still, smile vanishing.
"Dean," he says blankly, and the entire peanut gallery--including Mira on top of that post--is looking right at him.  "I thought--"
"What are you doing?"  He doesn't recognize his own voice, but Cas's eyes widen, while James and Zack take a discreet step back. "Why…" He gestures to the wires in what he hopes is explanation, like why there aren't any ladders? and why are you climbing goddamn poles? and without any spotters, because James and Zack gaping from a safe distance don't fucking count.
"I've been experimenting with outdoor illumination," Cas answers coolly, turning to walk to the other post where Mira's perched like she's not twelve feet in the air.  "I checked the output of the generator this morning, and it was too high for us to support the previous set, so we're trying again with LED lights James found yesterday in Kansas City.  They don't require any power from the generators and only activate at night." Coming to a stop, he looks up at Mira.  "Go ahead."
Dean takes an abortive step toward them, but Mira just braces a hand on the edge of the post and does a picture perfect imitation of Cas up until her hand slips.  Dean sucks in a breath, but Cas catches her hips effortlessly, slowing her descent until she's on the ground.
"…dammit," Mira growls, glaring up at the post like it personally offended her.  "I thought I had it."
"You moved too quickly, that's all," he hears Cas say.  "The only bad way to descend is an uncontrolled fall; remembering your body position and full relaxation are the most important factors and you kept both.  Even if I hadn't been here, you wouldn't have even merited an aspirin for the stumble."
Mira sighs, giving the post a last long glare.  "I don't even want to know how you got that ranking system."
"It's Vera's," he answers with a sigh.  "In any case--"
"I hate to interrupt," Dean lies, stepping onto the path, "but you got a minute?"
"Go have lunch," Cas tells them in the extended silence that follows. "We'll finish the rest afterward."
"Take a couple of hours," Dean says, still looking at Cas. "Have fun."
Giving Dean surreptitious glances, James hands Cas the remote before they start toward the mess in a fast walk, vanishing behind Cyn and Jane's cabin while Cas goes to crouch beside a box near one of the posts and places the remote inside.  Staring at Cas's back, Dean takes a deep breath; so this is going well.
Twelve feet up and sure, Cas seemed fine, but come on.  "Never heard of a ladder?"
"No, never," Cas answers, not turning around.  "Why?"
"You just…" Dean looks at the posts again, trying to remember a twelve foot fall isn't necessarily fatal, unless you fall on your goddamn head, and it's not like that's never happened in history.  "Maybe get better spotters. Ones who actually spot you."
"On the off-chance I lose my balance," Cas answers dismissively, "I know how to fall.  Human bodies are very fragile, and caring for it did include learning how to avoid killing it outright."
"Your body," Dean corrects him, wishing Cas would fucking look at him already.  "Just--be careful, is all I'm saying."
"Spotting can increase the danger if those doing it don't know how," Cas answers in the most reasonable voice in the world.  "And twelve feet isn't what I call dangerous."
"What about for Mira?" he snaps before he can stop himself, and closes his eyes: hell, no.  "You know, let me start over."
"Mira also knows how to fall, possibly better than I do," Cas tells him calmly.  "If you remember, we were fighting with the military in the cities, and not always at ground-level, so that was a standard part of training.  However, today Mira wanted to practice landing on her feet and not in a controlled roll, which requires more effort and can result in broken bones if care isn't taken.  She was a gymnast in high school and college, so the same skillsets that make up a successful dismount are in the process of being transferred."  He looks up at the post in disfavor.  "I think her hand still expected a bar, which is the reason she slipped."
Sam's love of the Olympics--all of it, every fucking event--means Dean does indeed know what those bars (the uneven ones?) looked like and the way girls in bathing suits flew off of them to eventually land like gravity was for losers who never learned how to fly.  So right, he's being irrational and stupid.  Good to know.
"Can she still do that--thing where they run across the floor and flip around?" he asks impulsively.  That shit was impressive on TV, and on a bet, the real life version is probably even better.  
That gets Cas to turn around, a faint smile on his face.  "She demonstrated a portion of her senior routine for something called Nationals one day after training," he answers.  "She said the field was larger than what she was used to, so she could make it work."
"Pretty cool, huh?"
Cas nods, a distant look in his eyes. "Extraordinary.  The human body's limitations seem to exist only to be immediately expanded upon.  I learned a great deal from watching her." 
"I could have helped.  With the lights, I mean."  That's not what he meant to say, but it definitely gets Cas's full attention.  Half-turning to face him, he regards Dean through a fall of dark hair.  "Fine, I'm pissed because I feel left out of the hanging lights party.  Happy?"
Cas's mouth twitches reluctantly. "You were asleep."
"You should've woke me up."  Patrol still meets in the morning--he thinks--but apparently he missed that, too. Come to think, he can't remember the last time he went to one of those.  "Uh, patrol meets in the morning still, right?"
"Yes."  Standing up, Cas looks at him.  "Why?"
Dean looks up at the posts and then the concrete bases, trying to remember how long it takes to do that.  At least a couple of days, on a guess.  For it to--dry or set or whatever, and not crash  to the ground when anyone's sitting on them.  (How long does it take for Cas to run five tests on a range to learn about the heating issue? How many tests did he run on the oven?  How long has the new mess really been in progress anyway?)  
"So the lights--what round of experimentation are you on now, anyway?"
"Fifth," Cas says, tilting his head, and Dean lets that number sink in as he adds, "Power is a problem, as I told you.  To support more people here, we will need more energy, and my calculations show a substantial increase in the amount of gasoline and oil required for the addition of twenty more people.  Reducing our energy needs will be difficult, but I'm working on several solutions to the problem."
"Yeah.  That's why I was thinking this first group is probably gonna be staying in Ichabod.  Since we're still kind of a work in progress…."  
Dean looks around the camp in illustration and pauses, starting over and taking them in.   Home Improvement Weeks One and Two caused a massive upgrade in camp living conditions, and the mowing did wonders for looking less third-world, but most of that was interior or maintenance level shit.  Now though….
He's not imagining it; the cabins look visibly better, even the unoccupied ones: broken windows are a thing of the past, existing porches look less dangerous, those without now have some sturdy looking steps from door to ground if needed, and all the doors look new (and possibly weather-proofed).  The paths between the rows of cabins are very clearly delineated with short wooden posts strung with wire about ankle-level and layered with fresh gravel. 
"Pouring concrete for a sidewalk is difficult," Cas tells him, obviously noticing what he's looking at.  "Unfortunately, Nate's experience is limited when it comes to concrete so he's studying, but James' work on asphalt is proceeding very well, so it's something of a race between them to see who gets to try their new skills with the walkways."
Dean nods wordlessly.  The reward for figuring out the problem is implementing the solution.  He'd give a lot to have been here to see Cas exercise those proselytizing skills, but he can guess where he was when that was happening. 
"You hungry?" Dean asks abruptly. "I'll make sandwiches and you tell me how the hell you convinced those crazy kids manual labor was a reward for studying. This I gotta hear."
Cas shrugs.  "As you wish."
Here's the thing about Phil: he's crazy, but he's the kind of crazy with one streak of absolute genius, the kind that must come standard for stalkers: they're observant as hell when it comes to the object of their crazy.  That it's basically in literal metaphorical code just means you gotta know the code, and once learned, it's not the kind of thing you forget.  Dean's read every report Phil's ever written (morbid curiosity and duty fuck you forward and back there), but getting the last three weeks of 'em all at once reveals this isn't random variation on a theme.
For why should it return but to leave again, as its nature compels it so, and its preference, too? Thanks, Phil: it's a whole new low to almost be grateful to the fucker, because God knows when he would have figured it out for himself.  In blank fucking verse, even.
Getting Cas talking isn't hard, and Dean sets a world record for the slowest sandwich ever eaten to keep Cas going, nodding and chewing hopefully whenever Cas pauses.  Sidewalks, a new mess, improved cabins, worrying about power, Nate's concrete research, James' adventures with asphalt, climbing posts for the best night lights: he supposes he could have talked more about Ichabod's power grid and roads and food, but he had to sleep sometimes, he supposes.  He was happier, too, can't forget that part.  Jesus Christ.
When even the crust is a memory, Dean doesn't give Cas a chance to escape to his laptop of Ways to Make Coming Home to Chitaqua Not a Punishment But a Pleasure and Not Want to Leave Immediately, No, That Wasn't Just About the Mess, Dean.  Maybe if Cas had given it that title, he might--no promises here--have realized the potential problem earlier.  
"So where's the new mess gonna go?" he asks, collecting their plates and not looking guiltily at the dishes from breakfast piled neatly in the sink. Because he's going to do dishes tonight himself.  "We have time before more pole-climbing?"
"As there's still an hour left before their extended lunch ends, yes," Cas answers, eyes narrowing suspiciously. "It's only marked off at this time, however.  There's not much to see."
"Dude, if I'm gonna be raiding the mess for sugar when we run out, I better get used to the change in location," he answers promptly, discarding plausibility in favor of herding Cas out the door and down their--fuck his life--repaired porch stairs. A glance on the way down confirms the lack of rotting boards on the porch itself, just in case he missed the point.  As they start back toward the main part of the camp, he meets Cas's faint frown with his best 'confused'.  "What?"
"You're being…." Cas visibly consults a mental list of words, obviously looking for just the right one.  "Uncharacteristically interested in minutia."
Dean goes out a limb and translates that to 'details'.  "Dude, I live here; it's not just--that."
"True," Cas says after just enough of a pause for Dean to know exactly what he's thinking: until those buildings in Ichabod are done for their new, permanent camp in the town Dean's spreading capricious fucking beams and leave Cas in solitude in a camp he's absolutely certain won't try to assassinate him, which is the saddest standard for livability he's ever heard of.  Because Dean's happier in Ichabod with fucking power grids.  
"You--don't think I'm moving to Ichabod with the permanent camp, right?"
Cas stops short, and Dean realizes he actually said that out loud and framed as a question. Taking a deep breath, he turns around to see Cas looking at him incredulously.
"Because I'm not," he adds firmly, which just means Cas's eyebrows get in on the action, vanishing into parts unknown. "Not even on the table."
Cas drags out the silence--he may not understand the concept of 'awkward', but he sure as fuck knows how to get a situation there, no sweat--before nodding earnestly. "I do know that," he says, each word carefully crafted to combine 'puzzled bewilderment' with 'stating the obvious' in a way that he must have practiced on a Dean past; it works.  "However, I appreciate your attempt to reassure me on that point."
Right.  "Good.  Glad we talked about this."  Dean inclines his head in the direction they were going--Cas is the one who knows where the mess is, so this is guesswork--and falls into step with him, shoving his hands in his pockets at the unexpected chill in the air.  "You are pissed, though."
"No," Cas tells him, making an  abrupt right halfway down the main path and leaving Dean to jog if he wants to catch up.  When he does, he continues with, "You are happier now that you visit Ichabod regularly, however."
"Yeah--no.  It's--that--" Cas sets a walking pace like this is a race, but years of Sam Winchester taught him how to stretch out and make it look casual.  "It's not like that. It's just--new, that's all."  Then, "Why didn't you say anything before?"
"Yes, I should have," Cas answers meditatively.  "Dean, you're enjoying yourself a great deal.  Please do that less, or at least less vocally, because your attempts at conversation are repetitious in the extreme and it's very annoying."  He stops short, one arm barring Dean from  tripping right over the string stretched out in front of him. "The site for the new mess: explore its wonders.  I'll wait, of course."
"Thanks, I will," Dean tells him, shoving his arm down and taking in the string-demarcated bare ground that will one day be a new mess.  It looks exactly like all the bare ground in Chitaqua, except for the goddamn string.  Pacing the length, he nods every few seconds like he's seeing the future and not in a silent competition for best in passive-aggressive; that is not a competition where anyone wins.  "You know," he says, turning around to see Cas right where he left him, looking bored out of his mind, "you could just, I don't know, talk to me.  If you want me here--"
"I don't want you here," Cas answers, like a quick punch to the gut, airless and over before he even saw it coming.  "Not when you don't want to be.  You spend every moment you're here waiting for a reason to go back, if you don't already have one already prepared by the time you return."
"I'm not doing that."
"The problem isn't that you have a preference," Cas tells him.  "It's understandable; Ichabod is closer to what you are used to in your world, or perhaps what you wish Chitaqua could be. That you won't simply admit it and discard pretense is a problem, not least because of the insult to my intelligence."
Dean swallows. "Look, after this trip, I'll stop--"
"This would be why I felt no need to discuss the subject," Cas interrupts.  "You're allowed to want to be elsewhere, and I'm perfectly willing to accommodate that. I'm not willing, however, to accommodate you when you wish to be elsewhere and are simply here out of either duty or guilt.  Duty is flexible; guilt is absurd. I would rather enjoy your willing company than be forced to endure your obnoxious attempts to salve your guilty conscience while you pretend."
"So going proves I want to be there, not here, but if I stay, it's because I'm guilty?" he asks incredulously.  "What the hell do you want from me?"
"For you not to be miserable," Cas answers flatly.  "How stupid of me to assume you knew that.  Are you done here, or can we go back?"
"I'm never gonna be done here." Inclining his head toward the main path, he adds,  "But right now, we got some lights to fix.  We'll start there."
If Cas was totally wrong, this would be a fuckload easier.  He's wrong, that's not in question; it's just that he has every reason for believing it, and a few more he probably would think of if he needed more.  On balance, Dean's pretty glad he didn't; it's not like he's not at enough of a disadvantage here.
Sitting on a pole twelve feet off the fucking ground isn't, in any way, going to do anything in the way of making Cas understand he's wrong. Yet here he is, stringing fucking lights on a wire, and if anyone asked him what the hell he was thinking, he wouldn't be able to tell them.  He's honestly not even sure how he got up here; it's all kind of hazy from the point he said--he actually said this--"I can do that, no problem.  Give me the goddamn lights, Cas."
Sam, right at this moment, just stopped to think how Dean's sometimes stupid just for the hell of it.  Now he does it with altitude attached.
Mira's voice drifts up to him, sounding worried.  He appreciates the thought.  "Dean--"
"Almost done," he says steadily, not looking down or checking to see if his voice just went up an octave on that second word; it did, so everyone needs to just move on.  Heights don't bother me, he reminds himself firmly.  I'm just bitter about not remembering as a demon my wings didn't work and I couldn't fly.  Because that's so much better.  
Gripping the post with his ankles, he attaches the wire on his third try and fails not to notice how far the ground is from his face.  Scrubby grass, bare dirt far, far, far below him: that shit hurts any way you land, but face first is definitely gonna be the worst.  On a guess, he's gonna be testing that real soon now.
"Dean!"  Zack and James in chorus this time, hitting three registers at once and probably loud enough to be heard across the entire camp.  Because what's needed here is more of an audience than he's already got.
Straightening dizzily, Dean sucks in a breath, spots dancing before his eyes, lightheaded with utter relief he's still alive. "I'm fine.  No sweat."  He risks a quick glance down, where three worried faces and a very expressionless fourth are staring up at him.  "James, check 'em."
If he concentrates very hard on the hilarity of James almost dropping the remote in his earnest desire to get this over with, he can almost pretend this is okay.  Twelve feet off the goddamn ground, but fine.
"Got it," James says breathlessly, punching down on the button, and Dean watches in satisfaction as the first set of lights come on.  So if he falls to his death, it won't be after failing at stringing fucking lights.  "It worked!  Good job, Dean!  Now--now you can come down, right?"
"No way," he announces of his own free will before all the world and Cas.  "Whole set of lights behind me to replace while I'm up here.  Just need to turn around."  This post is not that big, and he's not sure that's possible since he's not a former gymnast or Cas.  "Give me a minute."
"Oh God," he hears Mira say in horror.  "What's he doing?"
"At this moment," Cas answers coolly, "probably deciding which is worse: falling or admitting he has no idea how to turn around.  My money is on the latter."
Dean makes the mistake of glaring down at the group assembled below and wonders if the poll's gotten taller or something: they're really far away. "Fuck you."
"That's one act that traction will make impossible," Cas offers from the far distant ground.  "Truly a tragedy: I don't know how I'll cope with the lack."
"Or," James says desperately, "you could come down and we could do the rest later.  I think we're out of lights."
Dean doesn't look down at the still-full box; he'll fall, no question, and he's not doing that just to confirm an obvious lie.  He'll do it trying to turn on his ass on a fucking post.  "I got this.  Just give me a minute."
"Take all the time you need to admit the obvious," Cas says, sounding bored.  "We can wait."
"You're wrong," Dean snaps, shifting his ankles tentatively to see if maybe--no, that's not gonna work.  "So shut up and let me think here!  My goddamn camp needs lights, it's gonna get lights!"
There's an ominous silence below, but Dean can't really worry about that right now; is the wind picking up or something?  What if he grabs the post--no, that's not gonna work, and yeah, there is definitely more wind.  Gotta have a wind factor to cope with: why not?
"We don't want lights!" James says, sounding utterly terrified.  It's maybe the saddest thing he's ever heard, and he really means it.  Then, "Cas?"
The sudden confusion in James' voice makes him wonder what's going on down there, but not enough to check; the hands thing was the right approach.  Brace the heel on the edge, lift, use his ankles to maybe turn….oh God, no, don't do that, and is someone laughing?
"Cas?" Mira says incredulously, and yeah, of course it is.  "Cas, this isn't funny!"
"You have no idea," Cas says breathlessly and very, very punchably if Dean was ground level right now, and God does he wish he was.  "Dean?"
Dean grips the post firmly between his ankles, trying to remember if it's tornado season; seriously, what's up with the wind?
"Dean," Cas says again, and maybe he's hallucinating (this whole day, if he's lucky) but he sounds a lot closer.  "Please consider coming down now in a controlled manner instead of waiting for gravity to decide for you."
Actually, he doesn't have a problem with that plan anymore.  "Okay--"
"But while you're up there," Cas continues, and Jesus Christ, he's still laughing, "I'd like to apologize.  While I meant for you to take what I said very personally and upset you, at no point did I anticipate this particular outcome.  In my defense, I don't see who could have."
Bracing his hands on the post, Dean grimly shifts his ass until he can look down and see Cas just below him.  "You what?"
"Are they fighting?" he hears Zack say.  "Now?"
"That doesn't mean it wasn't true," Cas says, looking up at him, and while the ground may be a mile down by now, there's no way to miss the blue of his eyes.  "I'm obligated to accept your choice, and in fairness I can't blame you for it, but that doesn't mean I have to be gracious about it.  What do you want from me?"
"Cas--"
"I want you to be happy," Cas says, apparently on a ground-level honesty kick from Hell.  "But you can't expect me to not resent that requires you be elsewhere.  I resent it, and I don't see a time in the near future that's going to change.  Adapt as your ancestors did."
From  the peanut gallery comes, "I think they're breaking up."
"No, we're not!" Dean shouts in their general direction, shifting his center of gravity enough not to fall over when he looks back down at Cas between his knees.  "You know how you discovered laptops and you spent forty-eight hours trying every goddamn program on there?  Forty-five minutes just playing with the calculator?  You can do math that hasn't been invented yet, but two plus two on an LCD screen blows your mind.  I dealt."
Cas's bewilderment is obvious from a thousand miles away.  "Yes, but--"
"Did I shoot the laptop?"  The vague sense of motion he assumes is Cas shaking his head.  "Did you know I wanted to?  People get into new things, they become old things, and it happens; you just deal with it, tell 'em to cut out that shit if it reaches critical, but you do not turn it into a fucking tragedy for the ages!"
Honest to God, he's not sure what's more unbelievable; Cas actually straight-up saying what he's thinking without having to decode it piece by piece (and read fucking Phil's feelings about Cas's lot in life), having this very special first time occur while Dean's twelve feet in the air, or this discussion is actually happening and for that matter, with an audience.  He's gonna take the blame for not noticing what he was doing, but if Cas doesn't get yet he's gonna do stupid shit and need to be called on it, time he learned.
"Are you saying I'm overreacting?"
"You think?" Dean shouts down at him incredulously.  "You believe Phil's capricious beams bullshit or me? And don't tell me you don't get it now: I read every fucking word he wrote."
"He knows about Phil?" Zack stage whispers to Mira, but the wind helpfully carries it to him anyway.  He starts to answer and then notes Cas moving and follows, twisting on the post so he can keep Cas in glare-range, digging his fingers into the wood.  "Should we--"
"You three, shut up?  Everyone knows about Phil, Jesus!  Cas…" Hey, there's a wire in front of him..  Way down--two, three miles, maybe--Cas is watching him, arms crossed.  "What just--did I…."
"You wanted to turn," Cas says simply.  "So I helped.  You're doing fine."
Dean surveys the endless miles of wire to the next post, multiplies that by six, and thinks fuck no.  "Yeah, I really didn't.  It was fun while it lasted, but--"
"You were having fun?"
"It's a great view," he argues, risking a look around; oh God, that's a mistake.  "Our roof's better.  More of it and I know it, and I like it.  You know?"  He peers down at Cas.  "Well?"
"You're ready to come down?" He nods as clearly as he can: obviously.  "Go ahead."
"Thank God," he breathes, not even trying Cas and Mira's trick and just pushing off and nearly sighing in relief when Cas catches him around his upper thighs.  Bracing a hand on his shoulder to balance himself, Dean scowls down at him.  "Seriously?"
"Permanent base."  
Yeah, okay, he'll give him that one. "We okay now?"
"I suppose."  Then, "I found that knife for you earlier.  It was packed with the others in--"
"Holy shit, you have more?" he exclaims.
"I told you, I collect--"
"Dean?  Cas?" someone says uncertainly, and Dean snaps around to see James, Zack, and Mira huddled nearby looking really uncomfortable.  
"What?" Cas answers curiously, tilting his head.
Dean waits, but this looks like it may take a while.  "Well?"
"Should we…" James eyes dart frantically from the post to the box to the ground: it's weird.  "Uh, you still need us here?"
He looks down at Cas, who shakes his head.
"Nope.  Get some help--and goddamn ladders--and finish up tomorrow while we're gone.  And spot Mira on the dismount."   He waits, but--right.  "You're dismissed, yeah.  Go."  Watching them vanish down the nearest path, he turns his attention back to Cas.  "How many knives do you have?"
"Two boxes in the closet and one in the utility closet opposite the Encyclopedia Brittanica."
What the hell is up with that utility closet?  No matter how many times he searches it, there's always something he missed.  "Three boxes."
Cas nods. "I like knives."
"Show me." Then he remembers something and squeezes Cas's shoulder.  "Put me down first, okay?"
Cas smiles up at him before slowly easing him to the ground.  "Pity. I was enjoying that."
"Knives, future serial killer," Dean answers clearly, looking toward their cabin significantly.  "Now."
@@@@@@
--Day 122--

Dean bangs on the bathroom door again, keeping a wary eye on the horizon. No one likes mornings, especially those that start at fucking four, but he's dealing, so Cas can, too. "Cas, come on!  We gotta get going here!"
The silence from inside is ominous on a lot of levels.  Cas is a five minute bathroom person (excluding showers of course, which no one notices or judges thereof, though their hot water heater must be fucking amazing, just saying), and they're going on thirty minutes with no sign of emergence.  He's not sure what worries him more; that Cas is indulging in stress-related shooting up or, God, that he's inexplicably become one of those people who need thirty minutes to do their post-shower shit (not naming names, Sam).
He stills mid-knock: if someone introduced Cas to weird hair shit or facials or something….
"You may come in."
Pushing open the door, he stops short at the sight that greets him. Cas, using Alicia's tiny hand mirror hanging on the wall, adjusts his posture into a too-erect half-slump beneath the loose grey long-sleeve thermal before turning his head mechanically to look at Dean with a thousand-yard stare from a face like a blank sheet of paper.
Dean takes a step back.  "What are you doing?"
"I am attempting an experiment," Cas announces tonelessly, stiffly returning his gaze to the mirror.  "What do you think?"
"Uh…" Beneath his horrified gaze, Cas makes a slight adjustment to his posture and hits the uncanny valley like a nuke deployed for maximum dissonance.  "Stop that!"
"You don't like it?"  He surveys his reflection in the tiny surface, tilting his head like a bird seeing an unappetizing worm and finding it not quite worth stepping on.  
"Seriously," Dean says, more unnerved than if he had come in to Cas shooting up or holding product with a desire to actually use it.  All those require is a good salt and burn, but this…..  "Stop it."
"But I wish to make an appropriate impression on your new friends in Ichabod," Cas states without inflection, turning his head to look at Dean again like a shitty CGI mannequin in a third rate horror movie, or a puppet with expertly pulled strings.  "I would not wish to embarrass you in front of them."
It takes a second for the words to penetrate.  "You're what?"
"I wish to make an appropriate impression," Cas repeats in the exact same voice   "Perhaps a trenchcoat would help."
"You're kidding."  Searching his memory, he tries to bring up the memory of Cas newly-vesselled--or even as an angel--but it doesn't fit, and not just because Cas isn't an angel anymore. Cas doesn't wear his body like this, like a badly fitting pair of jeans; he lives in it down to his bones.  The stillness is eerie without the barely-leashed energy Cas always seems to radiate, and his movements are too sudden and somehow still too slow, too precise, like they were all learned by careful observation and just brought into practice with only a vague idea of why or when to use them.
More than that, though: it's just not Cas.  Tabula rasa: whatever's in there, it's not a person and never has been, and Cas is more a person than anyone Dean's ever met.
"Stop it," Dean says flatly.  "Now."
Cas's head snaps around, the thin film of nothingness cracking.  "You don't like it."
Coming in the bathroom, Dean leans against the wall by the sink, taking in the too-erect posture, slight slump of shoulders, and expressionless stare; all the pieces of a person Cas hasn't been in years but like a lot of things, the sum then was still greater than the whole.  This--this is somehow less.
"It's not you," he says finally.  To compound the horror, he spies a pair of scissors on the sink (how did he find them?), but a quick look verifies Cas hasn't done a chop-job on his hair, still tucked behind his ears, but now that he's looking, even that's off--too neat, lying there lifelessly when honest to God, Cas's hair has a personality of its own from the moment he leaves the shower and starts a war with him the minute it begins to dry.  "You doing this just to fuck with people or because you think…." He's not sure how to finish that.
All at once, Cas relaxes, scowling at the tiny mirror, and Dean almost sighs in relief as his best friend reappears, vaguely rumpled, surly, and electric like a live current. It's weird; just a few muscles, the way he holds himself, but the difference is huge.  
"I'm not sure," he answers honestly, and right on schedule, he pushes back the hair that escaped to hang in front of his eyes and makes a nice mess of the precise part, each individual strand belatedly beginning the revolution of the day.  "Was that how I--how I used to be?"
"No."  Cocking his head, he tries again, pulling up first impressions--second and even third--but even trying to graft those onto the man in front of him is impossible; you carry your past, no help for it, but you don't wear it: it's too small.  "Stupid question: why would you want to even try?"
"You know it doesn't matter how I…people react to what they sense," Cas starts, subjecting his reflection to a critical frown, which Dean can't figure out at all; months of shaving regularly, and he doesn't even cut himself anymore.  "I thought perhaps--if it were more obvious…."
"Yeah.  I mean, no, don't do that, but I get you."  He's been thinking about that since the first time he went to Ichabod, but he needs more information.  "Was it always shitty?  I mean, with everyone?"
"Besides you?"  Cas tilts his head, thinking.  "Not always, no.  There's always dissonance--again, present company and Chuck excluded--but…"
"But?"
"Some people don't seem to care," Cas answers slowly.  "'Surprised' might be the best descriptor, I suppose."
"Vera?" Cas nods. "Joe?  Amanda?  Alicia?"
"Yes, and Kamal as well."  Of course: the guy Cas lets check his translations. "Ana and Leah, Mark, they weren't hostile, simply--wary at first.  There are variations, of course."
On a guess, Cas can remember everyone's first reaction to him perfectly, and not just because of angelic memory.  That kind of shit wouldn't be easy to forget, or not think about.  Or be able to see when it stops, either.  First impressions, as they say, are a bitch, and that goes both ways.
"An adventure every time," he agrees casually.  "And the old team leaders--I'm gonna say 'hostile' was a good descriptor."
"Yes."  Cas's eyes meet his, an echoing coldness filling their depths.  "But they had so many reasons to regard me with hostility, eventually it was difficult to tell them apart."
Dean nods.  "You get I'm not bringing anyone into Chitaqua that's like that, right?"
Cas turns his attention back to the mirror: bingo.  "You may not have a choice--"
"There's a choice," he interrupts.  "I just told you what it is."
"You may find yourself short of recruits in that case."
"No, I won't be," he answers, crossing his arms.  "I'll get exactly the ones worth having."  
Cas rolls his eyes, reaching for the faded blue flannel overshirt draped over the lid of the toilet, and Dean takes the opportunity to snatch the scissors off the sink, pocketing them before he turns back around. 
"Be yourself," Dean advises him as Cas pulls it on, all lazy, unthinking grace, and he finds himself thinking of what Cas said about watching Mira, what he learned from her.  
A new human body, for all intents and purposes--tabula rasa--and while he'd learned to fight in it, he didn't become human when he Fell: actually living in it was all new.  The echoes of this Dean--and by extension, John Winchester--and the hunters that trained him are always there when he's fighting, but it occurs to Dean now that it was from everyone in Chitaqua--watching, interacting (in every sense of the word), and even training them--that he learned all the ways he could use it, and make it his own.
"You're certain that's a good idea?" Cas asks wryly, removing the mirror from the nail on the wall and turns it before tucking it behind the faucet.  "I don't think you've fully considered the potential drawbacks of that particular course of action."
The thing is, Dean has thought about this, a lot. It's the right decision no matter how you look at it, but that doesn't mean that at this moment he particularly likes himself for it.  It's really easy on this side of the fence to say that Cas has got to learn to deal with people unless he wants to spend the rest of his mortal life in Chitaqua or only places devoid of other people.  After all, Cas is the one who has to actually do it, and Dean doesn't have any context on what that must feel like, a whole world of people who will always know you're not quite what they expect you to be.
"Look, after this--if you hate it, you don't have to go again.  Well, I mean, unless something--I don't know." Yeah, that was reassuring; he's got that inspiring thing down.  "You know what I mean."
"I do," Cas tells him, passing him on his way back into the bedroom.  "Please stop trying to reassure me; you're not very good at it."
With a sigh, Dean follows him out, flipping off the bathroom light--gotta think about the generators--and drops onto the bed tiredly to watch as Cas opens up the closet-armory.  It's always interesting to watch Cas arm himself, and not just the somewhat mind-boggling number of weapons he carries so effortlessly that unless you know what he's carrying and where, it's almost impossible to even guess.  Cas has a routine, yeah, but other than the basics--gun, rifle, ammo, holy water, silver, salt--there are new variations every time, and they aren't random.  He could ask, sure, but it's kind of fun to watch and try to work out the pattern for himself.  God knows he's got time and opportunity to do it.
If they weren't in a hiatus, he supposes by now he'd have a routine himself, one that's automatic instead of something he still has to think about, the difference between someone who's just a hunter and one who lives in a militia camp in a world that refuses to end quite yet.
Cas selects one of the hunting knives from the shelf, checking it over by habit.  Four and a quarter inch blade, stainless steel, wood and plastic composite hilt so weatherproof, whatever; it's functional, sure, but nothing to write home about.  Cas has about half a dozen of them, two and a quarter inches to six and change, but only two of them merit shelf-space and aren't boxed.  Sentimental attachment, maybe?  No idea.
Shaking his head, Cas sets it back in place before removing a dagger from the wall above it, and that's what Dean's talking about.  Four and a half inch double-edged blade just escaping stiletto territory at an inch wide, with an American chestnut crossguard and hilt carefully wrapped in strips of leather that slides into his hand like an extension of his arm. Two hundred years old if Dean's any judge, and he is; they don't make 'em like that anymore, not least because that tree's not found in the wild anymore.  The metal, though….
"Tempered steel," Cas says, noticing his attention, and flipping it casually, he offers it hilt first.  Snorting, Dean takes it, examining the blade first, noting the well-honed edge and balancing it in his hand.  "I liked the weight, and when Bobby examined it, he said it was probably manufactured specifically for hunters.  The hilt-wrapping was badly degraded, but the wood beneath was in excellent condition.  It was simple to repair once I learned the process to treat the leather.  It was one of the first I ever acquired."
Handing it back--and suppressing the urge to flip it first, he's not that stupid, usually--he cocks his head curiously.  "Where'd you get it?"
"You'd be surprised what you can find at garage sales," Cas answers, crouching to push up the leg of his jeans and slide it into his boot before going to the closet and returning with another knife; the gleam of pure silver is unmistakable, and so is the weight.  It's old, too; he's guessing five hundred if a day, if the elaborate ornamentation on the hilt is any indication.  No empty slots for gemstones, either, interesting; looking closer, he finds the sigils hidden in the complicated whorls that aren't just decoration; this was designed by an expert who knew exactly what they were doing and why.  A very pretty toy on a glance: not a bad way to hide what you are in plain sight.  "I paid only fifteen cents for this: solid silver, created for purpose, and formally blessed by no less than two separate--albeit competing--Christian denominations. It was originally priced at a quarter, but I talked the owner down by pointing out that there was a scratch on the butt and the leather wrapping on the hilt was decomposing as we spoke."  
"How often did you need to get change for a pay phone, anyway?" he asks, reluctantly handing it back. Not useful in a fight against anything but something really vulnerable to silver, but still.
"That time wasn't for a pay phone," he answers, sliding it back into its oiled leather sheathe.  "A job we expected to take a week to complete ended up taking an hour; the poltergeist, as it turns out, was simply a broken water pipe. The owner of the home was very grateful for Dean's assistance with her pipes but also extraordinarily loud, and I grew bored waiting."
"She was…" Oh God.  "You're kidding.  He made you wait?"  
"In the living room," Cas confirms, setting the knife reverently back on the shelf.  "That was perfectly acceptable--"
"Cas, I'm gonna try one more time: the only place that's normal is in Chitaqua."  Cas gives him a skeptical look, and honestly, Dean can't even blame him now.  "Look, trust me here: when you want to get laid, you like, I don't know, tell the other person to go Xerox shit at the library or go research something or--you had to wait in the living room?"
"She had premium cable and pay per view," Cas explains, like that makes it okay when--in the living room?  "However, Dean yelled at me to turn down the TV, which admittedly was at maximum volume for reasons that must be obvious."
"To drown them out, yeah."
"No, it was a new installment of BBC's Planet Earth, which was interesting, but they made it impossible to hear the narrator," Cas explains, selecting another knife that Dean recognizes as Ruby's: demon-killing and good at it.  "I couldn’t find the remote control to activate the closed captioning, so it wasn't as if I had any other options."
Dean settles himself; this is gonna be good, he can feel it.  "Right."
"So I took half the cash in Dean's wallet and spent the rest of the week going to garage sales to better familiarize myself with your monetary system."
"He spent a week banging someone while you garage-saled your way across--"
"Boston, Maryland."
"--across Boston?"
"No, of course not," Cas corrects him, pulling up his shirts enough to slide Ruby's knife into the sheathe at the small of his back. "He spent the weekend having sexual relations with her and four days looking for me, since I forgot my cell phone and couldn't be certain that the prayers to 'you fucker, where the hell are you?' were directed at me or some other angel that displeased him."
He starts to grin.  "He didn't just leave you to teleport back?  This was before, right, when you still could?"
"I suppose that was a possibility," Cas concedes, pulling out--Christ--a twelve inch machete, turning it carefully before sliding it into its sheathe and attaching to his belt just above his left hip. And apparently not done yet, if the way he's examining the shelf is any indication. "But this was also when we were still building Alpha, and from what I gather, he didn't want to explain to anyone the circumstances by which he lost me in a major metropolitan city.  Or risk me doing so when I returned."
"You blackmailed him."
"I apologized profusely that the note I left could have been interpreted in such a way," Cas answers penitently, but there's nothing about his expression that doesn’t scream 'that is exactly what I was doing and I liked it'.  "In any case, whenever there was excess time after a job, it was agreed I could do as I liked until it was time for us to leave provided I took my cell phone with me."
"Going to garage sales and acquiring knives and volumes of the Encyclopedia Britannica," Dean says, still grinning.  "What about the prayers to 'you fucker'?"
"I explained in detail the myriad dangers of an angel choosing to formally acknowledge anyone addressing them with a name not their own," he answers solemnly, blue eyes wide and guileless. "I offered to compile a list of my acknowledged names for his perusal, but he assured me that 'Cas' was adequate."  Turning around, he's holding something eight inches long and still in its sheathe that Dean recognizes from last night's exploration of Cas's boxes of weapons.  He'd liked that one, but he didn't think Cas was paying attention. "Try this one."
Yeah, he's gonna have to just say it.  "Uh--"
"Your knowledge is functional for your world, not here," Cas says.  "I know.  That's why I mentioned the need to find you a practice weapon."
"Less than Dean's here, if you think I know how to use that other than the basics," he admits reluctantly, fighting the urge to take it anyway; one day, he assumes that won't bother him, but that day hasn't arrived yet.
"He preferred firearms whenever possible during missions," Cas answers obliquely. "Which was often.  Now check the weight and balance, please; this is a titanium alloy, and it should be light enough for your right to handle easily."
Standing up, Dean wraps his hand around the hilt, pulling it out carefully; Cas was right about the weight.  Not bad.  "Huh."
"I thought so," Cas says in satisfaction as Dean replaces it in its sheathe and carefully attaches it to his belt, taking a couple of steps to check how it feels carrying it.  "Alicia regularly carries a similar model, though she uses a calf sheathe."
Dean doesn't even pretend by 'regularly' Cas means 'missions'; he means every time he's seen Alicia around the camp, she's wearing one of these under her jeans and he just didn't know about it.  Abruptly, he becomes aware of Cas looking him over, head tilted thoughtfully, and can't help grinning.
"What?  Still think I can't arm myself?" he asks mockingly.  "You wanna check me?"
Cas tilts his head, like maybe he's remembering that conversation, too.  "Actually, I do."  
He spreads his arms.  "Go for it."  
Cas's fingers slide over the top of his belt, and he catches his breath, startled; even through his shirt, he thinks he can feel the brush of fingertips against his stomach.  Cas checks the buckle first, tugging lightly before going to his gun at his right hip, testing the holster and the draw, before circling around him, verifying personally and thoroughly that Dean indeed knows how to arm himself, ending with the knife at his left hip in a lingering slide the entire length of the sheathe.  Because he's being really thorough.  Good to know.
Then Cas drops to his knees and Dean's brain comes to a screeching halt.  Mouth dry, he stares down at the dark head as Cas eases up the leg of his jeans to check the plain hunting knife in his boot.  
"Weapons can be very personal," he says, fingers tracing restless patterns over the unadorned hilt against Dean's calf as tilts his head back, blue eyes half-hidden behind a fringe of dark hair. "If there's anything I have that you want, consider it yours."
"Okay."  He's not sure what to do with that, though he suspects it would help if he could remember what the hell they were talking about.  "I will. Thanks."
"You're welcome."  Cas smiles up at him before rising to his feet in a single boneless movement; they're close enough that Cas has to tip his head slightly to look up at him. "Are you ready?"
There's only one right answer to that question. "Yeah."
"Good."  Turning, Cas gets his jacket and tugs it on before tossing Dean's to him, and it's proof of the power of reflex that Dean catches it with no clear idea of what he's doing.  "It's a little more than two hours before dawn; we should check with Melanie before we leave."
Right, they're--going to Ichabod.  "Yeah," he answers, just managing not to drop his jacket; what the hell?  "Let's do that."
They're about an hour into the drive--Cas driving, of course, which Dean tells himself is because Cas should get to considering where they're going--when he remembers the last couple of days with a qualm of uncertainty.  Sure, they talked it out after two days of Cas's passive aggressive (resentful as fuck) acceptance of Ichabod being Dean's potential new home and how he was wrong, but that was only after possibly three weeks of Cas thinking it.
"So," he starts, wondering how to introduce the subject or actually, if he even wants to. 
"Yes?"
Okay, try the indirect approach.  "So is there anything--uh, you wanna know?  About Ichabod, I mean?"
"I'm not sure," Cas answers meditatively, flipping on the blinker and coming to a complete stop by the remains of a stop sign and looking both ways before taking a drivers-ed-perfect left turn.  "You've told me so much about it, it's almost as if I've been there myself."
Yeah, that's what he thought.  "Look--"
"Truly a city of wonder," Cas continues, eyes fixed on the empty road ahead like traffic could appear at any moment and he's gotta be ready.  "Covered sidewalks for miles in insulated buildings that possess furnaces providing sufficient heating for winter.  Their power plant provides enough power for almost unlimited use of electrical appliances such as lighting, television, DVD players, hot water heaters, and microwave ovens without random bouts of failure.  They even have CD players, on which can be played a wide variety of musical genres to while away the early evenings."
Fuck his life: who knew Rabin was a Metallica fan, okay?  "Right, but--"
"Street lights are available as well," Cas says brightly.  "So it's easy and safe to travel between buildings at night.  They have paved streets, well-maintained and without potholes, that provide a superior driving surface, and like the sidewalks, an excellent alternative to mud.  The plumbing is--"
"I get it," he states in resignation.  "You already hate it."
"There are even gardens attached in some way to the buildings for the convenience of the residents," Cas says.  "I've heard of such a marvel only once before; it was considered one of the wonders of the world, but you never elucidated if these gardens could be considered 'hanging'…."
"Oh God," he breathes, looking at Cas incredulously while hating Phil forever.  "Ichabod isn't goddamn Babylon!"
"Of course not.  A town that takes its name from the first Book of Samuel--"
"Four twenty-one, King James Version," Dean sighs, slumping into his seat.  "I know."
"--surely bears no resemblance to the unholy city that tempted the righteous to leave their homes and friends behind so they could cavort to their heart's content without a care for those left behind."  Cas comes to a complete stop at the sight of a sheared-off metal pole, checking the intersection of mostly dirt and mostly asphalt before looking at Dean attentively.  "Why would you think they have anything in common?"
Dean glares at him, but it's not like this isn't pretty much entirely his fault.  "I don't."
"I don't either," Cas says, hitting the accelerator hard enough that Dean's thrown back into his seat with a grunt.  "I liked Babylon."
"The meals you've experienced there are beyond words to describe, though strangely, you did keep trying," Cas continues, coming to a full stop to examine what may or may not have once been a county road; with the lack of asphalt, it's hard to tell.  "Steak, medium rare with black pepper and kosher salt and baked potatoes, roasted chicken with rosemary and peas and carrots, vegetarian lasagna--I wasn't aware you were so fond of dishes that don't contain meat--beef and cheese enchiladas, paneer curry with rice, a Denver omelet--not made in Denver, I assume, though anything's possible--with homefries, which is I think involves potatoes--"
"How long can you keep this up?" Dean asks bleakly.
"Four separate visits to Ichabod over three weeks: assuming you consumed three meals a day while in residence and at least one on those days that you left or arrived, the estimated total would be between thirty-five and forty-two meals," Cas answers slowly, frowning out the windshield. "That can't be accurate."
He straightens in guilt-ridden outrage.  "I did not talk about food forty-two times, come on!"
"My math may be in error," Cas agrees, still frowning as he lets off the brake and tests the time it takes the jeep to go from zero to eighty.  "It certainly felt like far more.  I'll start at the beginning and you can keep count.  Your first dinner in Ichabod: a fall vegetable medley with black beans and whole wheat bread made only that morning with butter churned from the local cows.  Breakfast the next morning: hard-boiled eggs with toast and apple preserves….are you counting? We're at two."
He closes his eyes. "Two."
"…and pleasant evenings spent in stimulating conversation with the town's most illustrious residents," Cas continues.  "Sometimes enlivened with the antics of immature humans or friendly games of chance with low or no stakes at all but for the simple joy of competition and companionship."  
Dean almost thinks--maybe….
"And no stripping was involved," Cas adds, looking at Dean.  "I almost forgot that part."
"I was joking," he grates out despite the futility of even trying, but it's not like that's ever stopped him before.  "It was a joke."
"It was very funny," Cas acknowledges.  "I apologize that I forgot to laugh."
"You said I should talk to you," Cas says reasonably, stopping at yet another goddamn crossroad without even the excuse of a metal post and looking both ways at the sea of bare fields surrounding them. "You were right, but in my defense, your soliloquies were lengthy and often you neglected to even breathe during them, and I didn't want to interrupt.  That would be rude."
Dean stares blankly at the endless road stretched out before them, wondering if they've really been driving forever or it's just his imagination.  Or Cas has managed by sheer will to reclaim the ability to fuck with time, because if anyone could pull that off, he could.  
"You know," he says finally, "I can't even tell how much of this is you actually being pissed and how much is just because you're having fun fucking with me."
"Even to me, it's a mystery," Cas concedes.  "Let's say the former informs the latter, but in what proportion, who can say?"
"You got a name for your laptop?" Dean asks, deliberately bracing a foot on the dashboard and biting down the smile of bitter satisfaction at Cas's there-and-gone frown.  
"Yes, but as you know, knowing the true name of anything gives you power over it," Cas answers, flickering another glance at Dean's boot.  "Why?"
"I'm calling it 'thing I covered in salt and set on fire in the front yard'," Dean answers venomously. "I like it; what do you think?"
"You did a backup, right?"
Cas doesn't answer.
At about one hour away, it dawns on him that Cas is suddenly much more genuinely committed to safe driving than he's ever demonstrated he knew existed when it comes to speed.  A glance at the odometer confirms they've dropped to a casual fifty-five, and when Dean ostentatiously removes his foot from the dashboard, Cas doesn't seem to care.
Yeah, okay.  "Cas--"
"We're fifty-two minutes from Ichabod," Cas says, having hand-drawn the maps and knowing math.  "I suppose this would be a good time to ask if there's anything you should tell me that you might have forgotten, but I can't imagine how that's possible."
"There is, actually," he says, keeping his gaze strictly on the world outside the windshield.  "I'm just not sure what it is."
From the corner of his eye, he sees Cas glance at him.  "You're not sure?"
"No."  He hesitates, turning it over in his head and wondering if this is one of those things that needs to be experienced or whatever to get.  "I'm not sure how to explain it."
Cas nods.  "Can you tell me what it's about, at least?"
"Yeah," he answers, turning in his seat and taking a deep breath. "It's about Alison."
Just out of sight of Ichabod, Dean says, "Stop for a minute."
That Cas does it without argument is all the confirmation he needs, slowing to pull off the road--for non-existent traffic--and putting the jeep in park.  "If you're worried I won't like your city of dreams--"
"Shut up," Dean interrupts. "Just listen, okay?"
Cas sighs--obviously and noisily--before making a performance out of turning to look at him.
"You say you want to leave, we leave."
"Dean," Cas says, sounding as if he's drawing on all his patience, "I don't need--"
"If I think you want to leave, we leave," he says quietly.  "Look, we get done on the training field today, we can go back home, no problem."
Cas doesn't answer for a long moment.  "This is something I need to do if I'm to be successful in this position.  As you said, it's my job."
"Doesn't mean you have to do it all at once just to prove you can.  I know you can, but I'm telling you, you don't have to.  Do it in stages, baby steps, whatever it takes.  It's not a test--"
"--but if it was, all I have to do is survive to pass," Cas drones, sounding bored.
"No," he answers, mouth quirking. "If it was, I'd be the one grading, and you've already passed.  It isn't supposed to be hard; if it is, we'll go back, revise the test…."
"You have no idea where to go with that metaphor," Cas observes after a protracted silence, one corner of his mouth twitching reluctantly.
Yeah, he should have thought that one through.  "Give me a minute."
"Or I could accept your reassurance and continue driving?" Cas says, reaching for the gear shift before looking at Dean. "Your choice."
Dean nods, trying to relax, but that's just not happening. This felt like a much better idea three days ago; right now, he's having trouble remembering why.  "Yeah, let's get it over with."  As Cas carefully pulls out, he adds casually, "I usually spend the morning on the training field when I'm here.  That's not gonna bother you, right?"
"These are your future soldiers that Amanda is selecting," Cas answers, starting up the sharp incline toward the town.  "I assumed you would want to be there."
God, he almost forgot that part.  "Yeah, right.  That."
"However, while I understand it might become boring," he adds, shifting gears as the incline steepens.  "I would prefer you stayed until she's done."
Dean swallows and nods firmly.  "Nowhere else I'd rather be."
Amanda and Mark meet them by the weapons trailer, and Dean almost hugs her when he sees that she's holding a large thermal cup that she offers to Cas almost before he gets out of the jeep.  Genius.
"Five cream, six sugar, just finished making it, and there's more in the trailer," she recites as Cas looks between her and the cup she thrusts between his hands, blinking slowly.   "Dean, go away."
Dean opens his mouth--hell no is he going anywhere--when Kamal materializes as if by magic or some secret signal he's gonna have to learn, grinning at him and holding two more thermal cups.  
"Other side of the field," Kamal explains, jerking his head toward literally the other side of the field.  "Out of sight, out of mind--"
"You'll intimidate them," Mark says bluntly as Amanda draws Cas step by step toward the trailer and away from Dean, possibly with promises of more coffee.  "They all know why they're here, and come on; they don't need to see their future overlord watching every move they make."
Dean fails to resist Kamal not-exactly-a-push in exactly the opposite direction of Amanda and Cas.  "But--"
"Drink some coffee," Kamal advises him, giving him the cup as he herds him inexorably away.  "We'll sit on the other side so we can watch, let them get focused and everything."
Glancing back helplessly, he sees Amanda leading Cas up the steps of the trailer while on the other side of the fence, the recruits are gathered in an uncertain mass and staring at Dean and holy shit, no.  Quickly, he falls into step with Kamal, fighting the urge to speed up at the feeling of all those eyes drilling into his back.
"So over there?" Dean asks hopefully, jerking his chin to the point he thinks is the farthest away they can get. Not much for visibility, no, but that's a feature when it goes two ways.
"Don't worry," Kamal tells him, taking a drink from his cup as he falls into step beside him.  "Ten minutes, they won’t even remember you're here."
Later, comfortably seated with Kamal on the fence directly across from the trailer and on his second refill of coffee, Dean reflects that Kamal understated the case dramatically; ten minutes in, Dean's presence is only one of the things the poor bastards forgot.
Taking a drink, he watches the continuing hilarity of all the potential recruits responding to Cas's silent presence by doing everything wrong, even stuff it's pretty hard to mess up, like walking.  It's not really their fault, he reminds himself firmly; Amanda and Mark completely failed to pretend Cas was just around for a steak lunch and hanging out with Dean.  He supposes they could have a couple of trumpets or something to impress on everyone that This is Fucking Important and Do Not Fucking Embarrass Me In Front of Him, but maybe that would be overkill.
"We shouldn't be laughing," Dean says breathlessly to Kamal, who almost fell off the fence when one of the younger guys tripped over his own feet as Amanda ran him through a simple throw.  Amanda's despairing look was just icing on the hilarious cake.  "It's just…."
"I know."  
Just as interesting--at least to Dean--was Cas slowly drifting from vague, slumping boredom on the trailer steps to actually sitting on the fence, sipping his coffee and looking almost like he might eventually find this interesting.  As Amanda leans against the fence beside him, Mark goes down to an inadvertent broomstick via a very nervous Derek--Fighting With What You Have Nearby is both extremely useful in the results and fantastic for the entertainment factor of successfully attacking a werewolf (Mark) with the average contents of a kitchen--and Cas murmurs something that makes her drop her head, hand coming up to cover her mouth as her shoulders start to shake.
Dean hides his smile behind his cup.
"Amanda's getting with Manuel and the patrol leaders to simulate an attack on the town in a couple of weeks," Kamal says cheerfully, getting Dean's attention.  "We get to be the demons and Croats attacking the town square, and the recruits have to figure out how to handle it on their own.  It's gonna be great."
He gives Kamal a dark look; that sounds like the most fun a hunter can have, and he already knows Cas and Amanda are going to ground him during it, because his life sucks like that.
"You can referee," Kamal offers, like that's any kind of consolation.  "Mark went over their usual strategies; he made a few suggestions, but most of it was pretty good, especially since they don't have any kind of physical barrier around the inhabited part of the town, just the town square."
Dean pauses mid-nod as Haruhi, black hair braided in a coronet around her head, breaks from the group observing and starts toward Amanda and Cas.  Mark and Amanda have managed to keep everyone at a pretty consistent distance, and until now, the recruits either haven't noticed it or cared enough to try to breach it.  Amanda straightens at her approach, glancing at Cas briefly before jerking her chin at Haruhi in what looks like permission.
As Haruhi approaches them, Dean watches her for something--what, he's not sure--then gives up and watches Amanda.  Haruhi pauses, looking between them for a moment before focusing on Cas.  He can't hear what she's saying, but it doesn't matter; Amanda relaxes back against the fence as Cas tilts his head and answers with unmistakable interest.  It's only a few seconds, but when Haruhi returns to her group at an easy jog, Cas's eyes follow her, and Amanda radiates something a lot like satisfaction.
He only realizes Kamal was tense as well when he sighs, taking a long drink of coffee before giving Dean a wry look mixed with relief.  
"Worried?" Dean asks neutrally, taking a sip from his own cup.
"They're good people," he answers, eyes returning to the field as Haruhi's group goes out and Amanda and Mark exchange places.  None of the others look interested in following Haruhi's example, but Derek's occasional glance toward Cas and Mark makes him think he might want to try.  They gotta be curious, he gets that; anyone who makes Amanda actually seem nervous is gonna get their attention.  "We had a bet--"
Dean snorts.  "You three would bet on anything."
"We make our own fun." Kamal shrugs, but now that he's paying attention, the tension is unmistakable. "They're going to be living with us soon, so might as well start getting to know them now."
He nods casually, watching as Amanda calls a break and starts back toward Cas and Mark with Haruhi at her heels, gesturing and pointing back toward the empty field.  As they reach the fence, Amanda waves her toward Cas before settling casually against on Cas's other side, eyes flickering toward the recruits exchanging water bottles and darting wary glances in their direction, Derek most of all.
"This is familiar," Kamal murmurs, a thread of amusement in his voice.  Glancing at Dean, he grins. "I forgot, you were on a mission when Cas decided he had nothing better to do that day, so might as well go see the new recruits."
"Like this?" he asks, trying to imagine what it was like to come to Chitaqua and find out your instructor in Everything You Needed To Know to Hunt Lucifer (and Other Shit) was a genuine Fallen angel of the Lord.
Kamal's expression warms in memory, which isn't what he expected.  "It was almost noon--back then, we didn't know Cas woke at dawn and didn't get hangovers, so we assumed he was still recovering from the night before--and we're wondering what the hell we're supposed to be doing when Jody suddenly jumps.  We all turn around, and there's Cas, sitting on the fence, watching us like…."
"Like he was trying to decide if dealing with you was better than Hell and still wasn't sure?"  Yeah, he's familiar with that one.
Kamal laughs softly.  "Except he knew Hell had to be better than this and resented the fuck out of being here." He shakes his head.  "I thought Vera was going to explode, she was so pissed.  She was already halfway across the training field before any of us realized what she was doing.  No idea what she said to him, but by the time we got over there, he was more in the resigned stage of grief and Vera looked really satisfied with herself--you know the look."
Triumph over stupid people: oh yeah, he got that a lot from her.  "I almost feel bad for him."
"Us, too," Kamal offers, eyes fixed on the same thing Dean is.  "Almost."
They watch as Derek finishes his water, twisting the bottle restlessly between long, dark fingers, and despite himself, Dean leans forward.  He told Cas this wasn't a test, but that's not true for anyone else on this field today, and he liked Derek the first time they met: open, cautiously friendly, willing to give them the benefit of the doubt, and like Haruhi, personally recommended to Amanda by Manuel and Teresa.  Amanda didn't name names when she talked about potential recruits, but he didn't need her to tell him these two were her top picks, the first to volunteer to help with her indoor hunter training project.  That's a big thing in this town, where even off-duty doesn't mean you don't have work to get done, and free time is a luxury.
"When you met Cas, you already knew what he used to be, right?" Dean asks as Derek looks toward the small group by the fence, where Haruhi and Cas are talking, seemingly oblivious to all the attention, and in Cas's case, that may actually be genuine.  
"Yeah," Kamal answers after a long pause, echoes of past wariness in his voice that even Vera and Joe's completely secret efforts at reassurance that he's not supposed to know about haven't entirely erased.  Whether it's him specifically or just anything that has to do with Cas, he can't tell, but it doesn't matter; either way, the habits of over two years aren't gonna be easy to break.  "We knew."
All at once, Derek puts his empty bottle with the others and starts toward the fence, and Dean couldn't look away if his life depended on it.  "And?"
"He said his name was Castiel," Kamal says as Derek hesitantly joins Haruhi, who abruptly turns toward him with a gesture that means she just dragged him into an argument he knows nothing about and expects his support. Derek looks at Haruhi and then up at Cas for what feels like years before Cas's head drops, but not before Dean sees he's trying not to laugh.  "And watching us mill about aimlessly for the last hour was perhaps the single most boring experience he'd had in his mortal life, but we showed every sign of being able to easily surpass it at the rate we were going."
Dean starts to laugh helplessly, though from relief or Kamal's probably verbatim quote or both, he can't be sure.  
"And he was going to teach us how not to die, starting now," Kamal adds softly, watching Derek with a small smile.  "That's the part that mattered."
Dean nods, eyes on the tiny group at the fence: they got two.  "Yeah, it is."
"So," Kamal says just past noon.  "I need to talk to you about something."
Dean glances at him curiously; it's winding down on the field, but by his (very satisfying) count, they got their twenty, easy.  He reminds himself to tell Amanda she's not doing too badly at the recruiting thing.
"I've been looking over their warding," he starts, rolling his empty cup between his hands restlessly.  "Teresa noticed my interest, showed me around.  My Spanish is good, but we're having some translation issues."
Since Teresa's multilingual--born and bred in Laredo, she spent as much time growing up on the other side of the Texas border as on this side, and her grandmother's family had been from Tlaxcala in southeastern Mexico--he must mean the terminology is unfamiliar.  Some of it's not translatable, he already knows, and a lot of it dates before the Spanish conquest and in several of Mexico's indigenous languages.
"Manuel showed me," Dean answers absently, fighting the urge to applaud when one of the women finishes a letter-perfect exorcism--the first one all morning--much to Amanda's visible relief.  "He told me the warding here is pretty common down on the border."
Kamal gives him a curious look.  "You worked on the Mexican border?"
"Years ago," he answers as another candidate picks up a broom. "I worked with a local bruja blanca, and the wards here are a lot like hers."  He pauses to watch the same woman (Rosario?) knock the pail head off a makeshift practice dummy (and almost take out another student in the bargain) and Amanda call a time-out, possibly from sheer horror.  "Why?"
"She's been teaching Neeraja and Sudha, but the only common language they have is English," Kamal answers. "So I offered to help."
Dean raises his eyebrows in a silent request for more information.
"My Spanish is Castilian, not Mexican, and I don't know the Texas or border dialects--or any of the indigenous languages--but I'm learning.  Manuel's been teaching me--when he's not laughing at me." Dean grins.  "If you're stationing me here for a while anyway--"
"You're stuck here, yeah."  Dean considers that.  "When it comes to Ichabod's patrol and defenses, it's Teresa's call, not mine.  What'd she say?"
"She's the one who suggested Manuel help me work on my dialects so I could understand what she was talking about," he confirms.  "But she wants to talk to you, too.  She said that some of the terminology--it doesn't have any equivalent in English or Spanish, but she thinks you can help her with that.  I'm guessing now that's because you worked on the border."
"Just a few months in the colonias around McAllen and Laredo," he says in surprise.  "Dude, it's not much--"
"She said you've seen some of what she's talking about and can help her describe it to me, one gringo to another," he explains, startling him; no one he assigned here should know anything about that.  "English is my fifth language, and don't get me wrong, I'm brilliant--"
"And modest," Dean points out, filing that away.  "How many languages do you speak?"
"Technically, I'm only fluent in twelve," he answers with no modesty at all.  "I didn't bother getting officially certified in the others--"
"Holy shit," Dean says, finishing his remaining coffee in a gulp.
"--and I don't really count dead languages," he adds as he pushes back a strand of newly-cut black hair and smirks at Dean's expression.  "There's a reason Cas trusts my translations and doesn't check my work."
"Is this going anywhere besides your ego?"
"I trained as an interpreter in the Nepalese Army and worked as a diplomatic interpreter before I went to the private sector.  Much better money, less danger of being shot--"
"And now you're an interpreter.  In a militia," Dean observes.
"But my chances of being shot are still pretty low," Kamal points out.  "Not a lot of what we fight carry guns." His expression turns serious.  "Translation issues are pretty much my thing, is what I'm trying to say, and I learn fast, but if you help her give me context now, I can do it a lot faster."
Dean nods, shifting his rifle behind his shoulder.  "When?"
"She wants to talk to you at Alison's dinner tonight," he answers positively.  "Besides, she says you need the practice.  Something about oreos--"
"Mal de ojo," Dean murmurs unhappily, waiting out Kamal's delighted laughter.  "You tell anyone about that--"
"About what?"
Dean looks up to see Cas five feet away, projecting vague boredom in their general direction.  "Nothing important."
"Anyone could mistake an eye for a baked good," Cas tells him, placing a hand on the rough wooden rail and with no discernible effort materializing beside him. "They're both formed from atoms and possess a circular shape."
So there goes that.  Scanning the field, he realizes it's empty.  "You on break or…."
"Amanda's speaking to the twenty successful candidates now," he answers, nodding toward the trailer.  "They'll continue this afternoon to place them appropriately for individual attention in their weakest areas, but all are perfectly acceptable. She didn't require my confirmation, but I understand that validation is sometimes helpful."
"While clean and sober, even," Dean agrees in his most encouraging voice. "Good job, Cas."
Cas ignores him.  "Kamal, Amanda says you'll need to take a larger role in teaching the others the basics as per our agreement with the trade alliance while she and Mark concentrate on their students.  A team will be temporarily assigned to you here so they can assist you, which may be changed to permanent should you fulfill your duties to Amanda's satisfaction."
Kamal blinks, looking surprised and warily pleased.  "Thanks."
"As our liaison here as well as your commander, Amanda will consult with Ichabod's mayor regarding your assignments during your residency.  Ichabod is losing the regular labor of twenty of their residents, so they'll be informed that your team will assist them as needed." He turns his attention back to Dean, eyes narrowing.  "Was that satisfactory?"
"How'd he do?" he asks Kamal seriously, who stares back at him in unconcealed horror.  "Be honest here.  Cas is working on his leadership skills.  We all gotta do our part to validate him."
"Uh, really good,."  Kamal mouths I'm so sorry at Cas with a look of profound sympathy.  "Can I leave?"
"No," Dean answers promptly.  "Like I can't lip read.  Cas, did Amanda say anything else?"
"Amanda would prefer I return before the end of class today and observe tomorrow, for reasons I don't understand," Cas answers, staring at Dean resentfully.  "Apparently, we were already scheduled to stay two nights, so that won't be a problem, I assume."
"I packed two bags," he says, kicking the fence rail idly.  "You put them in the jeep.  I also told you that, twice, and you were there when I told Mel.  I wonder how you missed that.  Couldn't be because you discovered Microsoft Access doesn't care if you threaten to smite it and so ignored everything I said?"
"I dislike Microsoft," Cas says as he slides back to the ground and ignoring Kamal turning red trying not to laugh at them, at least until they're out of hearing range.  "And you, at this moment.  I'm ready to leave now."
"Yeah, sure," he answers easily; if Cas needs time, that's exactly what he's going to get, all that he wants. "Kamal, we're heading back, so tell Amanda--"
"That I'll be back an hour before dusk," Cas interrupts as Dean drops to the ground and just barely avoids a stumble. "Dean?"
"Yeah," he says vaguely, waving in Kamal's direction as they start across the field toward the jeep.  As soon as he's sure they're out of earshot, he looks at Cas.  "So we're staying?"
"Weren't we just discussing this?" Cas asks, giving him a look that implies he's deliberately being difficult.  "I may have mentioned Amanda requested my presence this afternoon as well as tomorrow?"
"Yeah, but…." He stops, grabbing for Cas's arm and just escapes being pulled off his feet before Cas finally turns to look at him.  "I meant it, what I told you in the jeep.  We can leave right now."
"In addition to Amanda's request, I understand my attendance is expected for dinner at the mayor's home tonight and a tour of Ichabod is planned for tomorrow," Cas answers, and Dean really should have talked to Amanda first thing this morning. "I'd hate to disappointment anyone--"
"You won't be disappointing anyone worth giving a fuck about," he interrupts.  "We leave now, we'll be back in time for that hamburger experiment I told you about the other day."
"Deliberately get stoned to improve my palate, yes, I remember," Cas says, nodding slowly.  "The next morning, I assumed that was a particularly surreal acid flashback.  So that actually happened."
"Could be happening tonight," he says, adding temptingly, "Might even join you when I'm done cooking, see who can eat the most hamburgers, maybe steal some Joe Beer. It'll be great."  The more he thinks about it, the better it sounds; food, beer, hanging out at home with Cas, especially that last part.  Definitely that last part.  "Well?"
Cas hesitates, giving him a searching look. "I thought you didn't approve of recreational drug use."
"What?  Dude, how do you think I learned to roll joints?"  Then it hits him. "Holy shit, did he actually tell you that?"
"There was a speech--several of them, I think," Cas answers to his utter amazement.  "If I wasn't high when he gave them, they assured I was afterward, as quickly as possible."
"During or after he finished a line of shots?" Cas makes a face.  "Yeah, that's what I thought. Anyway, like I was saying--"
"If we stay, is this offer transferrable to a later date?"  Cas frowns, eyes fixed on some point behind him.  "If you say no, we're returning to Chitaqua immediately."
"It's open-ended," Dean assures him.  "So…."
"I don't have any objection to seeing more of Ichabod than this field," Cas says.  "As I'm already here, now is as good a time as any to do so."
He stops fighting the grin. "You sure?"
"No, I could be getting high with you before dusk if we start driving now," Cas admits, sounding pained.  "If you ask me again, my answer will change, so it's probably best you don't.  I think."
"I won't," Dean promises, resting a hand on Cas's shoulder before starting back toward the jeep. "So, Pinky, what are we doing now?"
"Boomerang was vastly underrated as a competitor to Nickelodeon," Cas says wistfully.  "I do have an idea, Brain."
Dean looks at him, projecting 'ready for anything'.
"Where would Ichabod's mayor be right now?"
Cas and Alison's first meeting is everything he never thought to hope for; it's a privilege to just to stand there and witness an irritable psychic in an armchair look Cas up and down while practically radiating skepticism. "You're an angel?  Really?"
"Fallen," Dean corrects her as he snags the couch, leaving Cas either standing or the armchair closest to her.  Cas can stand forever, but he's been around humans enough to have picked up the habit of sitting when they are, and right on time, Cas slowly--reluctantly, Dean thinks in delight--takes the armchair between him and Alison, obviously resigned to whatever the universe plans for him now.  A quick look at Alison confirms there's nothing but curiosity and interest on her face, and something inside him relaxes he didn't realize was tense.  "Should see him in a barn in a trenchcoat."
Cas flickers him a glance that promises he'll pay for that before turning to Alison and saying with rigid politeness, "It's surprisingly pleasant to meet you, despite the fact that you didn't disclose your abilities to us, read the minds of our personnel here without their consent, and attempted--albeit unsuccessfully--to read Dean's mind as well."
Alison isn't impressed, but as a quick glance reveals her ankle's been upgraded to a cast, he assumes at this moment, vague threats aren't even making the radar of things that are pissing her off.  "If I'd been influencing anyone, I'm pretty sure you would have figured it out when Joe reported back the first time."
Interesting, how Cas totally doesn't deny it.
"So," Dean says into the charged silence, "we got our recruits."
"A team is being assigned to Kamal, per the terms of the agreement Dean made with Ichabod on behalf of Chitaqua," Cas tells Alison.  "However, that assignment is pending the disclosure of your abilities to Joseph as Chitaqua's chief negotiator, Amanda as commander of those of Chitaqua's militia stationed in Ichabod, and Kamal as team leader, the latter two agreeing to remain here, and assurances from you that you don't intend to continue to violate the privacy of their minds without an acceptable reason."
"Agreed," Alison says before Dean can decide if he's supposed to confirm that or just look supportive. "What do you need?"
"Can you project as well as you receive?" Cas asks, and Alison frowns, nodding hesitantly.  "I thought as much.  This is a test, and what you choose to do now will decide if you pass.  You may begin at your leisure."
Alison opens her mouth indignantly, but then hesitates, sitting back with a frown, hazel eyes unfocused.
"Cas," Dean asks quietly, unnerved by the silence.  "What--"
"She knows perfectly well what I'm asking her to do," Cas answers coolly, watching Alison.  "I assume she's currently in consultation to decide if she should."
Dean looks at Alison; so that's what she's doing.  "Who's she talking to?"
"I assume the same person who warned her of the penalty should a psychic misuse their abilities."  Dean can't help but think of the bathroom this morning and wonders how the hell Cas thought what he was doing in front of that mirror was anything but mimicry, and shitty at that.  Half-slumped in a ragged armchair, rumpled and looking bored, Cas doesn't need anything but himself to be exactly what he is.   "And informed her of who had the right of judgment."
Alison's mouth tightens, hazel eyes focusing on Cas. "Give me a minute."
"I'll wait."
She frowns, eyes unfocusing again before she abruptly goes still, hands clutching the arms of the chair for a long moment.  Humans can't deal with infinity, Cas told him.  Worried, he starts toward her, but Cas reaches out and catches his arm, never looking away from Alison, eyes vast, a drowning blue that goes on forever.  "Don't."
Shaken, he sits back down just as Alison opens her eyes, relaxing all at once; if anything, she just looks surprised.  "Huh."  He glances at Cas, and while he can't be sure, he thinks he's amused.
"How are you feeling?" Cas asks curiously, the earlier coolness absent.  "I wasn't sure how it would work now."
"Fine.  Thanks for the warning," she answers, shaking her head like she's checking to make sure it's still there.  "That was--different."
Very faintly, Dean sees Cas's expression flicker, though what that means he has no idea.  "Even without Grace, it can be dangerous for a psychic--"
"Yeah, I saw that, very--horrifyingly detailed, thanks for my next nightmare."  Cas doesn't wince, but Dean suspects he kind of wants to.  "Well?"
The genuine worry in her voice seems to surprise Cas. "Generally, if you have to ask, the fact you can at all is an indication you're within acceptable boundaries for use."
Alison manages to combine relief and incredulity in a single flat stare.
"You're still alive," Cas explains politely, which has the effect of transforming the stare into an outright glare.  "Congratulations, and thank you for your excellent ethics.  I wasn't particularly looking forward to explaining an extempore public ritual execution of Ichabod's mayor to their entire town."
For the life of him, Dean can't work out if this should have been on his list of potential worst-case scenarios when it came to introducing Cas to Ichabod.  Horrifyingly, the answer is probably yes.  Still, though.  "What?"
"You might be aware your entire planet has not been under the iron fist of a series of powerful psychics through all of its history," Cas tells him conversationally.  "There's a reason for that.  The Host tended to deal with that problem under the auspices of free will."
"Huh."  Yeah, he's got nothing.  "So--good thing nothing like that's happening today.  Right?" 
"Dean wants me to make a good impression," Cas says to Alison, leaning his head against one hand and regarding Alison thoughtfully.  "That wouldn't have helped, I assume."
He's kidding, right?  "Seriously?"
Alison looks at Dean, and God help them, they're sharing a moment.  "Are all angels like that?"
Cas snorts.  "I'm not an angel--"
"No, they're not." he says at the same time and gets two pairs of curious eyes--and from Cas, startlement.  "You have no idea.  So everything okay?"  What just happened, he means.  Put in words that he can hear, thanks.
"She was assuring me of her good intentions very, very thoroughly, and I had to stop her," Cas answers, gazing at Alison with a hint of exasperation.  "In the future, should someone ever ask you to open your mind to them, one, don't do it, and two, shoot them, fatally if possible.  At the same moment, preferably.  Tell me you own a firearm and know how to use it."
"I thought that's what I was supposed to do," Alison says in bewilderment.
"Not like that," Cas states firmly.  "I'll attempt to explain before I leave, though I'm afraid the lack of words for it will be something of a handicap."
Alison frowns. "What did I do?"
"The phrase 'my life flashed before my eyes' might describe it, but substitute, 'your' for the first 'my'," Cas answers.  "Don't be alarmed; infinite memory does have its uses in the sheer amount of data available to me at all times.  Even if I wanted to remember the minutia of your entire human life--and I can't imagine that happening, ever--the lack of context would make it nearly impossible to find them unless it was by accident."
"I'll keep that in mind.  So you can tell me…." She trails off hopefully.
"Vessels' latent abilities are thankfully suppressed, so I have no concrete knowledge to draw on,"  Cas answers, and Dean files that away for later thought.  "You were born with dormant psychic abilities, which isn't at all unusual.  They could and in other circumstances should have remained so all your life."
"And four months ago…."
"You told Dean it felt like something happened--something you didn't remember but expected despite that when it did.  That was the day that Dean confronted Lucifer in Kansas City."
He straightens; they so didn't talk about this.  "Cas--"
"Lucifer's reaction to being thwarted that night seems to have been to release uncontrolled Grace upon the world," Cas continues like they didn't just go seriously off-script, if they'd even had a script, which by the way, they didn't and maybe they should have.  "It killed all his followers as well as most of those infected with Croatoan in those cities and areas under his dominion on earth."
Alison's eyebrows draw together.  "Why would he…you're saying Lucifer had a temper tantrum?"
"Like a three year old," Dean throws in desperately with a glare at Cas; seriously, what the hell?  "Crazy, right?"
"Grace without direction or purpose is very deadly, but that much released on the earth at once would have other side effects as well," Cas tells her, straight-faced honesty better than any lie could ever be.
"Teresa said something about…" She catches herself with a grimace, expression smoothing out before continuing.  "So that might have--woke this up?"
"As what happened that night has quite literally never happened before in all of history--any history, anywhere--there's no actual precedent for your situation," Cas replies. "However, as your own clairvoyance possibly predicted this--that would be one reason you felt as if you expected it to happen when you woke up--at this moment, that's the most likely explanation."
Dean glares at the side of Cas's head.  "Huh.  I never would have thought of that."
"You aren't and have never been an angel of the Lord," Cas answers with a hint of 'patronizing' because he's a dick.  "Some things, you must know, are--"
"If the words 'beyond your comprehension' come out of your mouth--" Dean starts.
"I'll have to sleep on the couch?" Cas asks curiously, turning to look at him. "Must be a day ending in 'y', then."
Belatedly, he realizes Alison is watching them, cheeks slowly reddening like maybe this is supposed to be funny or something.
"Cas, you were telling the nice secret psychic about her powers," Dean manages, staring his 'we're so talking about this shit later' right into Cas's wide blue eyes and knowing he's laughing his ass off on the inside right now.  "Anytime you're ready."
"Of course," Cas answers graciously, turning back to Alison.  "I apologize; we left an hour before dawn and only had time for one cup of coffee.  Fortunately, Amanda had prepared more in anticipation of our arrival, but it's been a very long morning ."  Cas did not just say that.  "You're strong enough to project very clearly, and even without Grace, I can't be injured if you can't control it.  This time, attempt to project without firing the entirety of your mind at me at once.  It's--disconcerting.  Take as a model verbal conversation: only the information you want me to know now."
"Anything specific?" she asks dubiously.
Cas shrugs. "I'd like to know more about your clairvoyance, and I think it would be easier for you this way than with words."
She nods before closing her eyes, and after a minute of watching her, Dean turns his attention to Cas, who just looks like he's inventing new geometry for the next time he reorganizes the pantry.  It's pretty boring, but every once in a while Cas looks vaguely surprised, so there's that.  Fortunately, it doesn't take long; Alison opens her eyes, looking thoughtful, and Cas's frown deepens, but nothing continues to happen.
"Okay," Dean says finally.  "Gonna share with the class?"
"She's psychic," Cas answers, probably just to annoy him before telling Alison, "You're a surprisingly strong telepath, both in reception and projection, which you probably guessed."  He tilts his head, studying her.  "Clairvoyance isn't unusual, but usually they come together if you possess both, not piecemeal.  You've been able to see portions of your future all your life?"
"As long as I can remember," she answers.  "Dreams, mostly.  A couple of bad trips in college."
"I don't even want to imagine that combination," Cas answers with a wince.  "Psychedelics are to be avoided if possible, or at least outside controlled circumstances."
"That," she says wryly, "I learned for myself, thanks."
"Do you ever remember your dreams?"
"Not the details, no, not unless it actually starts or is about to--a little like déjà vu for the lead-up, which by the way worked pretty well as an excuse until the Apocalypse."  She grimaces.  "At least when it wasn't actually happening."
Cas nods, eyes narrowing in thought.  "And it's always specific to you: your actions, I should say?"
"Yeah, I think so," she answers after thinking carefully.  "I mean, sometimes I never found out what the decision was that I was supposed to make, but--"
"That would be because something else happened before you needed to make it, rendering it moot.  Free will in action."  Cas frowns into the middle distance. "That's--I’m not sure."
"What?" Dean asks, glancing at Alison, who looks equally impatient.  
"Clairvoyance isn't unusual," Cas explains.  "Clairvoyance that warns its bearer of important future decisions is extraordinarily useful and therefore rare, but certainly not enough to elicit comment.  Clairvoyance that does all that and manages to avoid traumatizing the bearer to the point of suicide, permanent insanity, rampant alcoholism and cirrhosis of the liver at an early age, or a dangerous drug habit as a lifestyle choice….I congratulate on your good fortune.  That almost never happens."
"Thanks," Alison says slowly. "I think?"
"I was being sincere," Cas clarifies.  "That almost never happens.  Congratulations."
"Human skills," Dean tells Alison's slow blink.  "We're still working on those."
"I feel better," she tells them both.  "I heard a 'but' somewhere in there before being happy I wasn't cutting my wrists in a tub of everclear and heroin, though."
"I'm thinking."  Cas studies Alison, and Dean thinks he almost says something before abruptly changing his mind.  "After manifestation, psychic abilities tend to strengthen over time.  Is it still getting stronger?"
She hesitates briefly.  "It's hard to tell.  I told you, I'm new at this."
"You haven't reached the threshold of your abilities," Cas answers.  "Which you've already sensed, and I'm confirming."  She makes a face.  "I'm not familiar enough with concrete examples of psychic manifestations in humans to do more now than tell you that your accuracy is surprisingly high, and opiates will help dull the headaches.  They may be the only thing that will at this point while your mind adapts."
"We don't have a lot--"
Cas gets a complicated look on his face.  "I'm sure we can refresh your supply," which Dean takes as coming from their ridiculous supply of morphine, which puts them in the position of being grateful their dead asshole doctor was a junkie; it really must be a day ending in 'y'.  Drug dealers of the Apocalypse is officially on the table as well; good to know.  
Looking between them, Dean considers spending the rest of the morning like this and makes an executive decision.
"So, I'm gonna go watch Amanda," he says, stretching elaborately.  "My soldiers, duty, you know the drill--"
"You're bored," Cas observes.
"I'd rather watch paint dry," he agrees instantly.  "So unless you need me for something--"
"Go away, Dean," Alison says, rolling her eyes.  "I'll entertain your angel."
Cas nods.  "Enjoy yourself, and if I don't see you until then, don't be late for dinner."  Turning to Alison, he says, "I've been told I should request a tour of your town?  Apparently I should be interested in your buildings, though I have yet to hear an explanation as to why."
"We can do that," Alison agrees, then adds casually. "You mind if I get some coffee first?"
"We can start with your kitchen," Dean hears Cas say with much more enthusiasm as he starts toward the east exit of the town square and just makes it to the street before he starts to laugh.
When Dean and Cas walk in the door of Alison's building for dinner, he doesn't make a run for it, mostly because Cas is right on his heels and also, he's providing an example.
Looking around the large--and packed--living room, he smiles brightly into all the smiling, curious faces--wow, that's a lot of faces--and reaches back to grab Cas's wrist just in time.
"It'll be fine," he murmurs when he turns around to take off his jacket, staring into Cas's eyes a promise he'll kill him if he abandons him to this.  "Promise."
Dean takes in the two bags on the guest room bed of Alison's building and doesn't even pretend to be surprised.  Cas, on the other hand stops short, subjecting them to an examination like he's looking for evil spirits or maybe bombs.  He's been in much worse motels, he thinks, approving the bare, whitewashed walls, worn, comfortable furniture, and thick, faded quilt.  Nothing here smells of body fluids or feet, but there's a hint of lemon and plain soap.  
"We got upgraded to the mayor's building," Dean remarks, sitting on the edge of the mattress and giving it a bounce or two while fighting the urge to drop onto it and never get up again after the longest dinner of his entire life. It's much better than the one at the cabin; he wonders what he can trade for it.  "Must be you.  They've been farming me out to anyone with a spare bed when I visit."
"And Alison wasn't sure of your reaction to the fact she was living with another woman and didn't want to risk you finding out before she knew more about you," Cas says, still staring at the bed. "Amanda and I talked earlier today about what I should expect in social encounters while I'm in Ichabod."
Dean cocks his head. "Such as?"
"Among other things, that humans are very unpredictable in their reactions to other people's sexuality, which is why Alison was justifiably worried about yours," he explains.  "She has yet to discover any bias among the residents and has met several people during the course of her investigations that have made her feel very welcome."
"Three weeks and she's already getting laid," Dean interprets, unsurprised when Cas nods.  It's weirdly easy to imagine Amanda regaling Cas with her sexcapades in Ichabod, though why, he can't really say.  "So she does know what downtime means, good to know.  So she was just making sure you were prepared."
Cas nods.  "She--"
"Figured I'd forget to do that," Dean interrupts, shaking his head at Cas's worried look.  "She was right; I didn't even think about it.  Sorry about that."
"From what I understand," Cas answers, one corner of his mouth upticking, "this was more a precaution, as the memory of your discussion with the watch lingers quite strongly in everyone's memory.  She recommended I should bring anything I found questionable to her attention first to judge the severity before you traumatized anyone else for life who wasn't one of your subordinates."
Despite himself, he grins. "They still flinch when I do random checks."  Looking at Cas, though, the amusement fades. "I forgot you've been at Chitaqua since you Fell, so this would be pretty new to you." He tries not to make it a question; this is definitely territory for Vera when she gets back.  "And probably weird," he adds honestly, thinking about what makes up social encounters in Chitaqua.  "Speaking of new, what did you think about dinner tonight?"
"New," Cas agrees.  "I assume in this case 'dinner' was a euphemism for a casual form of introduction to the town's leaders that included food?"
"You got it," he confirms. "The meet and greet, it's a thing with humans.  Food's around to keep you from a cut and run."  He'll give Alison and company this much; that was a lot of food, and it was everywhere.  Good delaying tactic, he suspects: empanadas to slow you down if you're trying to get out the door.  Or so he assumes: those were goddamn amazing, and he had three or four at least.
"Is it usual for there to be so many people at one of these?"
"I don't know," he admits.  "I got the more formal version, lots of really polite conversation--"
"Poker until two in the morning."
"--midnight, and who told you?"  He snarls at Cas's faint smirk.  "Goddamn Alison."
"If they already met you," Cas asks, beginning to frown, "then why did they feel the need to repeat it tonight?"
"Oh, that was for you." Cas starts to look alarmed.  "I'm the scary leader of the militia: been there, done that.  You, on the other hand…."
"This is part of the reason you wanted me to come here," Cas says slowly, like he's testing the idea.  Dean nods, bracing an arm on the mattress behind him.  "Other than Alison and Teresa, they don't know what I am."
"They know you're Castiel," he answers firmly.  Tonight, there was no way to miss the reactions even if he wanted to, and if seeing it live and in person at less than three feet away wasn't fun for him, he can't imagine what it was like for Cas as the object of it.  Amanda really did make good choices for those first recruits, it turns out; none of them, not one, were like some of those here tonight.
It wasn't dramatic, no, but it was there, and Cas was right about the variations: surprise and hesitation, uncertainty, sometimes a very shitty attempt at polite retreat, avoidance after, sometimes requiring the length of the room.  They might not be able to help it, but he hated it every time.  It made the few who didn't react all the more memorable, though; Teresa, Manuel, Tony, Rabin and Sudha, Neeraja, Eyong and Njoya, Dina, Lanak, a few others he marked for later thought.  They knew the difference, that much he could tell, but to them, it just didn't seem to matter.
Alison, he remembers suddenly, didn't react at all.  Box thing must have been good prep, he guesses uncertainly.
"You're Amanda's instructor and a member of the militia and--the other stuff," he continues, waving a hand.  Weirdly enough, he's not eliding for the relationship thing--that's old news--but the job description, because this is his life.  "What you tell them's up to you."
"You'd prefer I didn't?"
"I'd prefer this wasn't an issue," he answers honestly.  "If you're asking me what decision you should make, forget it; that's your choice.  If you're asking if I want you to…." Jesus, talk about being screwed by your principles.  "I want them to get to know you, and that's a big chunk of who you are."  He tries on a smile.  "I'd also like you to be able to sleep while you're here without feeling like you gotta watch your back."
"That doesn't worry me," Cas replies absently.  "You're here."  
And like that, he can smile and actually mean it.  "Exactly."  Cas looks at him, startlement slowly replaced by understanding. "Like I said, it's up to you.  I got it covered either way."
"I'll keep that in mind." 
"Sit down," Dean says invitingly, stripping off his boots before scooting up the bed. For reasons Cas (therefore ineffable), he hesitates before gingerly seating himself on the very end of the mattress, then slowly removing his boots.  "So, anything else?"
Warily, Cas turns to face him, cross-legged and thoughtful.  "So that was all of Ichabod's current leadership?"
"God, I hope so." The formal intro was a lot different, not least because Alison spread that shit out over a couple of days of very polite dinners that doubled as opportunities to show that Dean and company didn't eat babies raw and could talk about something besides their death counts hunting in the wilds of Kansas.  "That was a lot of people."
Alison and Claudia were the official greeters, easing them into the room so that (just guessing) Derek could lock the door behind them.  Manuel was next as co-leader of Ichabod's patrols with Teresa, and they introduced their patrol leaders: Sreeleela, Antonio, Sandar, Anyi, Anthi, Shuo, Hans, and Cristian.  Dina, their resident agriculture guru, doubled down with her leads, Mercedes, Elena, Thomas, Alejandro, and John for the town's gardens and fields.  Sudha and Neeraja, Teresa's non-formal apprentices with their warding and more metaphysical defenses, he met as residents of Alison's building before; much like Teresa's existence, their other jobs were omitted during the original introductions.
That was just the warm-up, though.
Dolores, an RN and their Medical head, had two LVN's and a paramedic with her when they showed up just as the appetizers were getting low, which is when Dean started slipping, though there was definitely a Karl and a Lewis in there somewhere.  Tony showed up for the main course after putting his kids to bed, with Dennis and Walter for city services, at which time Dean's brain shut down entirely, nodding on command for the town's other specialists who kept the town working, ending with the town's council, which as far as Dean's been able to tell, was them, twenty people picked in quarterly elections, and possibly everyone who shows up to the meetings, because he can't say this enough, that was a lot of people tonight.
Even visits to Ichabod can't change months of comfortable familiarity at Chitaqua and his people there.  It was disorienting as hell, and he's pretty sure it was only Amanda and Kamal's determined efforts (and a lot of appetizers) that kept him and Cas from utter disaster.  Act normal, yeah, that helps: what the hell does that even mean? 
"A lot of people," he repeats, reassured by Cas's enthusiastic nod of agreement. "You get everyone?"  He's kind of counting on Cas's memory to keep track of the bewildering faces and names thrown at them during the Totally Non-Threatening Casual Getting to Know You Food and Chat Thing.  It's possible he met all one thousand people living here by the time dessert was served; he sure as hell didn't see many of them twice.  
"Yes," Cas confirms, to his relief.  "Name, position, tenure, siblings, parents, current and potential romantic partners, and what their offspring accomplished most recently.  Cristian and Esperanza's daughter is turning four in one month; is that significant?"
"Cake," Dean says promptly.  "Maybe a present?  Do they make rifles for three year olds?"
"If they do," Cas answers after they both take a moment to contemplate the horror, "I don't want to know about it."
"Good call: I'll talk to Joe.  He still remembers what normal people do."  Probably.  
He's still not sure what to do with the unsettling suspicion that maybe life in the suburbs didn't work out for him for more than Sam-related reasons.  Observation of people in their natural lawn-maintenance and weekend barbecue habitats taught him to fake it, but it was always life lived like a sitcom without a discernible plot.  In Chitaqua, he may be technically lying about who he is (though he is Dean Winchester, as Cas regularly reminds him) but what he is, that's not just a valid lifestyle choice--it's normal.
In Ichabod--crowd size aside--it wasn't actually that different from Chitaqua now that he thinks about it, and the differences are ones that seem to be a matter of scale.  Leads are the specialists, but everyone does rotation doing everything; like in Chitaqua, there are too many jobs to do and the burden of survival's a lot lighter when its spread out.  Besides the evening classes for the residents to learn new skillset, the gardens that feed Ichabod are worked individually and the produce shared communally, and no one escapes How a Cow Becomes a Hamburger and a Pig Becomes Bacon when the time comes for that kind of thing.  Chitaqua's agreement with the towns means they'll also be full participants in the glory and dream that is getting food from the ground as well as the animals, which Dean agrees with and is not looking forward to even a little when his time comes.
Dean studies Cas for a moment, trying to decide how to approach the subject of pre-dinner divide and conquer, which quite literally only Kamal's hissed assurances kept him from bringing a dead stop.  That and Amanda taking a strategic position that kept her in line of sight of him and Cas so she could nod at him reassuringly.  
"So you and Teresa's talk tonight…."
"Teresa was apprenticed to a bruja blanca in childhood and completed her training soon after graduating college."  Dean's not sure what to make of the expression on his face.  "She felt it was a professional courtesy, witch to Fallen angel, I think.  Not that it was something I could miss, but I assumed courtesy required me to pretend I didn't know."
"You know what that is?" Dean asks, intrigued by the idea of Cas exercising his social skills for good instead of weaponizing his lack thereof.  Cas gives him a filthy look, but whatever.  "You didn't sprain anything, did you?"
"Next time someone implies you must be very good in bed, I plan to suffer a dramatic lapse," Cas answers, smiling pleasantly.  "You were saying?"
"I'm impressed and not at all surprised you know how not to offend everyone in under ten seconds in any given room?" he offers, mostly from sheer stupidity.  "I'll tell them you like to cuddle."
"I don't care."
Fuck ex-angels and their sheer lack of shame. "Right.  I'll pick better battles. Truce?"
"Agreed."  Cas fixes him with a thoughtful look.  "She told you after dinner?"
"After she talked to you, yeah." He figures the reason why is pretty obvious now.  "She was pretty careful about what she told people when she and Manuel first settled here."
"You don't like witches." It's not an accusation exactly, and Dean hears the question under it. 
"I worked with a bruja blanca when I was on the border, and they don't tell what they are unless they think it's a good idea," he answers obliquely.  "Teresa's mother, as it turns out.  I'm guessing after talking with Alison to be sure, she figured we were safe enough."
Cas tilts his head, waiting.
"Did she tell you what there're called?  The wards?" he asks. "La migra de las luciérnagas--migra is a nice way to say border patrol.  So, border patrol of fireflies."
"Surprisingly accurate as a description," Cas agrees.  "She explained the methodology.  A delineated space is indicated, and the ward remains inactive until it's crossed, at which time it activates at that location, causing the intruder to become temporarily disoriented, allowing time to either locate and attack the intruder or flee.  It's extremely efficient; it can cover a large area and lowers the number of people required to patrol."  
"Did she mention the part where it looks like a little swarm of lights when it comes on?" he asks a little desperately.  "Dude, that's the best part."
"I assumed as much from the name, yes."  
"You know why she's using that one?" Cas raises an eyebrow, which he decides to take as a desperate desire for information.  "The power comes from her, all of it.  She's bound to the earth, but according to her, her agreement with it is if she can't do something and needs help, if her intentions are good, she'll get it, but never at harm to itself.  She could force it to help her if she wanted to--probably get most of the state if she made an effort--but it's just a request.  She's not too worried how the earth judges her intentions, so it's worked out."  
"You didn't answer my question."
He sighs, rubbing the bridge of his nose.  "I don't trust idiots who find neo-paganism on the internet and think it'll grant them a million dollars and a new car if they mispronounce some Sumerian bullshit or fuck around with blood sacrifice for kicks and power.  Someone fucking around with what I saw Constanza doing down there like it's a game and thought it looked fun….what they do is more than that."  
He actually didn't realize how much that bothered him, above and beyond the danger; Constanza was awesome, and much like Manuel, spent considerable time correcting his language skills with the tried and true method of a lot of laughter. Showing him as much as she did was an act of faith, that much he understood from the start; that she took the risk still surprises him, no matter how much they'd needed help.
"That bothered you."
"They come from a tradition that dates before the written word and they train to do this all their lives: this is their lives.  Their job description is pretty much the same as mine.  Just more--" he gestures uncertainly. "Talking to the ground.  Apparently that part's turned out surprisingly useful, who knew; Teresa can also figure out what the land needs for their crops, not just hunt down fucked-up earth spirts and always find where chupacabras are hiding out, which is a much bigger problem down there."
Absently, Cas loses the entire sitting thing, stretching out on the bed, head in hand.  "She's worried about others eventually coming here--not their current trade partners as much as others, if the trade alliance expands as it hopes to with our help.  Specifically, from the place she lived before she and Manuel came here."
"The ones who wanted to burn her alive for witchcraft, you mean?"  Dean takes a breath, wondering how the fuck he can actually be saying those words.  "Kamal said she wanted to talk to me before dinner.  Didn't see that coming."  He looks at Cas sharply.  "You did, though, didn't you?  Do I need to even ask...."
"Not that, no," Cas assures him.  "No one at Chitaqua ever verbally expressed any desire to burn me alive for practicing evil.  That was new to me as well."
Dean notes the 'verbal'; replace 'fire' with 'bullet', and we got a hit.  Of course Cas wasn't surprised.  
"A woman who offers to protect them and can help them grow enough food so they don't starve to death." Saying it out loud didn't make it any less insane before, but he had to check one more time.  "And they wanted to burn her alive. For witchcraft. They were gathering the fucking wood when she and Manuel left!"
"During dessert, she said you told her that she and Alison and Manuel, along with anyone else who felt threatened, were welcome in Chitaqua should they require sanctuary." That makes sense; she'd want to check in with the resident not-human to see how life is there if you're different.  Lack of burning people alive would be a big plus; he wonders what she'd say about the secret police thing that used to do it with a gun.  "Do you wish me to warn Amanda and Kamal so they can protect them if necessary?"
"Yeah, talk to all of them tomorrow." Dean blows out a breath, forcing out the tension by sheer will.  "I don’t think it's gonna be a problem here, but I'd like a contingency plan just in case."  
What Cas is (what Alison is, what Teresa is) may not be normal (whatever the fuck that means during a goddamn Apocalypse in the infected zone), but it still blows his mind that in a world where Lucifer walks the earth, Fallen angels, psychics, and witches are feared on principle.  Like somehow, an army of fucking demons, werewolves, vampires, and goddamn fae are more explicable than the idea that people can come in a wide variety of magical flavors and still just be people.  
After talking to Teresa, he's grateful for Amanda's gossip for a greater good; it gave him every excuse to keep Cas in line of sight if not within three feet or less (his best reach for pulling out of danger purposes).  In the back of his mind, he wonders if this is how Alison feels with Teresa, when she goes on those trips to the other towns, checks their fields, tells them all about the earth's thoughts (feelings?  No idea) and what to do about it; the only wonder is it hasn't driven her fucking insane.  Dean's just barely okay with Chitaqua, and a lot of that is because he's kind of their leader.  
Cas nods, then seems to remember something and abruptly sits up.  "Dean, should I--"
"Okay, I don't understand, fine."  Sliding off the bed, he picks up his boots and places them in easy reach of the left side of the bed before giving Cas a significant look and showing him where his go on the right.  Might as well get back in the habit of being ready for anything; the fever just fucked up his routine but good.  "Teresa is just a person who knows more shit than they do and people wanted to kill her!" he continues, remembering Cas's three-foot rule on speed; yeah, this is should be fine.  "What the fuck was wrong with people?  What they hell did they think you were going to do, stare 'em to death?"
"Me."  Cas's head comes up sharply.  "Dean?"
Dean sucks in a breath, dropping down on the bed with a sigh.  "When you said--about how people react to you now--it's not that I didn't believe you.  I just--I didn't know it was like that."  He looks at Cas.  "How the hell do you stand it?"
Cas looks at him as if he's never seen him before.  "You get used to it."
"Good try, but no," he answers softly.  "Not after what I saw tonight.  If I'd known…." If he'd known, really known, he never would have made Cas come here.  "I'm sorry--"
"You shouldn't be," Cas interrupts, and when he looks up, there's a thoughtful look on his face.  "I met many interesting people.  All things considered, while it was a poor alternative to an evening of marijuana and hamburgers with you, it was enjoyable nonetheless."
Dean studies him thoughtfully.  For reasons best known to Amanda, she brought Haruhi with her, and she homed in on Cas in five seconds flat.  Cas's lack of objections were really noticeable, for the record.  "What were you and Haruhi talking about?"
"Six months ago, something incorporeal and very unfriendly was caught by the wards.  However, it had limited abilities at projection and some rudimentary psychic abilities that allowed it to manifest what can best be described as version of their worst nightmares," he answers.  "As it couldn't get through the wards and they had no idea how to kill it--or see it, for that matter--they simply had to wait out of range until it went away, which took two days.  She wants to kill it a great deal, and wants to know how."
He winces.  "Got anything for her on that?"
"Several possibilities: Manuel offered to show me where they keep their records, as they thoroughly document each attack," Cas answers, but there's no way to miss the anticipation in his voice. "As she was one of Manuel's patrol leaders, she has access to them and offered to take me to see them herself when I had time."
Sounds like fun; get together with an attractive hunter for an afternoon of reading about monsters and talking about killing things.  Three of Cas's favorite things, all in one convenient package.  He wonders if that room has a convenient couch so everyone can be comfortable; that wouldn't surprise him at all.
"Huh," is all he says. He could say more, but one, why would he, and two, he's not sure what, because there are a lot of possibilities and none quite convey 'concerned' instead of 'weird'.  "Sounds great."
"It does," Cas agrees with really unnecessary enthusiasm.  "Derek overheard us and asked to come along tomorrow.  I'm looking forward to it."
"Derek's awesome," Dean tells him sincerely, nodding enthusiastic agreement.  "Glad we got him.  You kids have a blast."
"You're worried."  Dean stares at him wordlessly.  "You shouldn't be.  They all seemed like very pleasant people, at least on such short acquaintance."
"Right."  That. "Look--"
"I can take care of myself--"
"I know--"
"--but I do feel more comfortable knowing you would do so for me."  He smiles faintly.  "Whether or not I need it."
Dean sees Cas studying the wall intently and it dawns on him they're having a moment, an important one, and no one is stuck on a post or feverish while it's happening.  Holy shit, they're getting better at this.  Hear that, Sam? And he said Dean didn't get feelings.  "Anytime."
"Difference can be threatening," Cas continues, switching back to practicality at the speed of light.  "You tried to shoot me when you met me.  Familiarity makes everything mundane."  He does that thing again, like he forgot something and just remembered, straightening on the bed with a faint bounce and absolutely no squealing springs.  They have got to get this mattress.  "As I was saying--" 
"Dude, you were a scary thing with giant wings busting in like…." He trails off.  "Hell of an entrance, gotta give you that one."
"Thank you.  Dean--"
"It's the fucking Apocalypse!" he says, getting to his feet and looking around for a chair; good, one's already on his side of the bed.  "How does a Fallen angel or a witch even make the radar when you got hydras--hydras, what the everloving hell?--shapeshifters, vampires, trolls, gnomes, fucking brownies, giant snakes speaking in tongues or something--"
"A crude form of Aramaic, and yes, that was strange," Cas says, turning to follow his progress as he grabs his bag on his way to the chair.  "Dean--"  
Unexpectedly, his voice cuts off, and Dean takes a second to pick up his jeans from the floor before looking up.  "What?"
Cas gets that look on his face that says he wonders about Dean's intelligence sometimes.  "There's one bed."
"What?"  Tugging out his sweatpants--once Cas's, fine, but he never used them. Why, he can't figure out; apparently, he just doesn’t appreciate how unbelievably comfortable they are, the thick cotton washed soft and amazingly warm.  Snow could happen, he thinks hopefully when he glances out the window after tugging off his shirts and draping them over the chair with his jeans.  Temperature may be forties now, but that could change.  Tugging on a t-shirt, he turns around to see Cas staring at him from the middle of the bed.  "Cas?"
Cas closes his eyes.  "I don't sleep with people."
Dean blinks at him, wondering uncertainly if he heard that right. "Uh, Cas--"
"I'm not speaking in metaphor, I mean literally."  Opening his eyes, he sighs.  "I've never slept with anyone in the sense of sharing a bed or given discrete space with someone for the purposes of an extended period of unconsciousness, is that clear enough?"
"Ever?"  This is the weirdest thing he's ever heard.  "Seriously?"
Cas's eyes narrow. "Yes."
"You just--get up and leave after?" he asks, unable to stop himself.  Sure, that'd be okay during your average group experience--or so he's heard--but one on one… "Throw them out?  And you got repeat customers?  How?"
"I tell them I had an enjoyable time and…" Cas's expression is like a novel.  A novel in Enochian, granted, but Dean's working Cas to English is getting better every day.  Cas doesn't just not want to talk about this; this is a not-talking hill he's willing to die on.  "I haven't, let's leave it at that."
"Okay."  It turns out he's the kind of person who really wants to see how devoted Cas is to that goddamn hill.  "So, you want me to sleep on the floor?"
"Of course not!"  Cas shuts his eyes briefly.  "I only meant that I could--"
"Let me get this straight," Dean interrupts, settling down on his side of the bed and making himself comfortable, because while he's kind of tired, this is also kind of fun.  "Body fluids are come one come all but sharing a mattress is a problem for you?"  Before Cas can answer, he shakes his head firmly.  "Here are your choices: I sleep on the floor, we both sleep on the floor, which is stupid because this mattress.…" He has no words for this mattress.  "What's it gonna be?"
Cas's eyes narrow dangerously.  "I'll take whichever side of the bed you haven't already claimed."
"I promise to keep to my side, which feel lucky, because Sam, you never know how the hell you'll wake up." He looks into the distance, remembering.  "Could be sweating to death with octopus arms or burrito in progress beside you while you freeze your ass off."
"An adventure a night, I take it."  Cas finally--and to Dean's eye, not really all that reluctantly--gets up to grab his bag, setting it precisely on the foot of the bed and looking insultingly surprised that Dean knows how to pack. 
"You're welcome," Dean says airily, tugging back the heavily quilt, blanket, and crisp sheets in preparation for some seriously comfortable sleep.  It's gonna be amazing, his back can already tell.  "And for the record, their water heater's kind of a dick and the two available slots are now and seven AM."
"I'll take now," Cas says, correctly interpreting Dean not making any move for the door.  "If you'll excuse me--"
"Shower's two doors down," Dean says, arranging his pillows before adding,  "Do we need to go over this again or can I get some sleep?  Dude, I trip over you tonight…" He's not sure what threat will work--none, probably--but he leaves it open and lets Cas decide what might go there.  "Okay?"
Cas sighs; life is hard for ex-angels with stupid hang-ups.  "I understand.  You'll probably be asleep when I return.  I'll try not to wake you." The implication is that he's gonna try, and may not even fake it being an accident.  Good luck with that: since the fever, Dean sleeps like a goddamn rock.
"Awesome."  Yawning, Dean throws back the covers, settling against cool sheets with a sigh.  "By the way, good luck.  Wake me up when you're done and tell me how it goes."
Cas nods.  "I will."
@@@@@@
--Day 123--

Propping his feet on the newly-built bannister, wood still unpainted, Castiel settles back in the weathered armchair on the cracked concrete porch of Alison's building.  Between one and four in the morning is the least active time period in the town; the third shift is almost entirely composed of patrol and those whose job includes maintenance and observation of the town's general services, including water and electricity, none of which require anyone to even casually be near here and visibly flinch at his mere presence.  He supposes uncertainly this could have gone far worse, but that's not exactly a comfort at the moment; to his own surprise, his standards have risen somewhat beyond 'survival' as a measure of success or failure.  Dean is a terrible influence indeed.
You get used to it, he told Dean: that's survival, but stupidly--so stupidly--he hoped for more than that.
Two more days in this accursed town; technically, that's not forever, but from this side of forty-eight hours, it certainly feels like it.
The storm door behind him--a new addition, he suspects, from the lack of wear and the gleam of the jointures against the wooden frame--opens abruptly.  His eyes fixed firmly on the road, he listens to the sound of uneven steps framed by the unmistakable staccato beat of a cane until they come to an abrupt stop parallel to his chair.  
"Good evening, Alison," he says, turning to observe the frozen woman standing three feet away, wearing an oversized pair of sweatpants and a sweatshirt with a flaking picture of what he thinks is a tiger, a blanket thrown haphazardly over her shoulders, and smiles.  "How are you this lovely night?"
She hesitates, hazel eyes unreadable, but nothing about her indicates she's ever backed down from anything in her mortal life and certainly has no intention of starting now.  With a snort, she turns, limping painfully behind him to the other armchair and dropping into it with a sigh.
"Wonderful." she answers shortly as she carefully braces her own feet on the rail as well.  Despite himself, he feels an uncomfortable flicker of pity.  The tension that she attempted, with uncertain success, to hide from Dean is impossible to miss now, and he wonders, not for the first time, why anyone sane would call what was given to her a gift.  "Giant box in the guestroom; nothing quite like that to really encourage that insomnia habit you’ve been working on."
Interesting.  "Foldspace," he offers, tugging the blanket he found in the hall closet more comfortably around him against the chilly night air and settling more comfortably into the frayed plush cushioning.  Like the furniture in the town center, it's held up astonishingly well to exposure to the elements, and he wonder if he should acquire one for Dean.  He enjoys sitting on the porch, and it's far more comfortable than the stairs.  "Collapsed dark matter of zero mass and infinite density.  Refutation and confirmation of e equals mc square.  Pick one or all of them if you wish."
She gives him a disbelieving look from bloodshot eyes ringed in violet shadows that deepened over the course of dinner this evening.  "Physics?  I did chemistry in undergrad."
"You were a programmer, I understand," he answers, amused by her irritation.  "You understand--very crudely, admittedly--a very small part of the language that created the universe.  Not that Microsoft could prove that," he adds a little bitterly after his experiences with Access. 
"Jesus Christ, you mean it really is math?"
"Yes, though your definition of math is very narrow.  I was rather looking forward to when you discovered a concrete example of an imaginary number."  Her eyes widen. "You told Dean I was like a box.  Infinity is a very long time, and that's still a new one to me."
"It's much bigger on the inside, trust me." she says after a moment, grinning when he rolls his eyes.  "Yeah, I figured you'd get the reference.  Dr. Who fan, not a surprise.  Did Dean mention--"
"The cold, yes, several times."  Her mouth twitches before she brings it under control.  "Folded space and fury, an eternally burning sword, infinite justice, chaos incarnate, perhaps even a storm of vengeance and righteousness, but…"
"A box." She cocks her head, fighting a reluctant smile  "You're offended?"
"I'm a being of infinite--" He sighs, sinking more deeply into the ragged upholstery.  "I don't know.  An infinite being who is also a box."
"Maybe you're in the box?" she offers mischievously, and he's unwillingly reminded of this afternoon; it's been a very long time since he experienced a human mind like that, and never one like hers.  "The box thing, I have no idea where that came from."
"A cold box," he corrects her acidly before shutting his eyes, appalled.  "I had no idea it bothered me this much."
"I'll tell you what I told Dean--I saw a cold box, and something about time--buying time, maybe, and it'll be enough."  She shrugs.  "I call 'em as I see 'em."
"I miss Chuck's literary period," he tells her. "Narrative flow, coherent plot, realistic dialogue, surprisingly readable style.  Have you read his work by any chance?  He published under Carver Edlund."
"I think I have one or two," she answers warily.  "Why?"
"You might consider them a model for your future work in the field of clairvoyance."  Her flat stare tells him she might be considering burning them now.  "It's been a very stressful Apocalypse, and despite the fact I've been completely sober for the most recent part of it, the surreality has actually increased compared to when I spent it very drunk and very high."
"Welcome to the club."  She gives him a sardonic look.  "Infinite being, huh?  Nice work if you can get it."
"You'd be surprised."  He studies his socked feet (unmatched, again) and thinks about Alicia's dryer elves theory.  They're still working on a model for trapping them, but Alicia's reminder that elves have reality-bending capabilities means progress is slow. "Contemplating the infinite variety of the universe when you already know every detail of its inception is less exciting than you might think.  I did it most of my existence, and only as a human did I finally have adequate descriptors, which would include 'monotonous' and 'incredibly boring'."
"Nothing new under heaven."
"Heaven is a study of repetition forever, world without end--or in this case, world without end yet--amen.  Fortunately, there was always a war against something evil or blasphemous to distract me before I became dangerously close to considering how often one can wonder on the perfection of an amoeba."
She looks at him skeptically; without her glasses, she has a surprisingly penetrating stare.  "Really?"
"Of course not; then, I had no context for anything else.  Human minds demand active occupation and novelty: angels, not so much.  Possibly because we don't know anything else."  Even to himself, he's not sure what he means.   
"I sound like this when I have insomnia, which, in case you're curious, is always these days." She looks at him for a long moment, the wariness that she almost successfully hid their entire afternoon together temporarily forgotten.  "Contamination, right?  That's why I can't read Dean and get you when I try."  She waves a hand.  "No superpowers, just a smart girlfriend."
"Teresa," he confirms, not surprised. "When you tried to read Dean--what you sensed, she recognized it.  When she was finally allowed to return home and you could show her, that is."
Alison scowls.  "She's still smug she was right about that being stupid, happy?"
"Yes."  Her scowl deepens.  "What else did she tell you?"
"She has a lot of practical experience with it in all its apparently many, many forms," she answers with an expression he's seen on Dean's face more than once during certain conversations: one part utter bewilderment, one part determination, one part boredom, and one part--fondness, he supposes uncertainly, startled, then with an effort dismisses it.  "It comes up a lot in her work."
"She's bound to the earth itself," he agrees.  "She's probably more familiar with it than anyone living."
"Yeah, but not like what you're doing," she says slowly, brow creasing before shaking her head with a grimace.  "She wanted to talk to you about it after the party was over, but got me to do it by completely forgetting about it and going to sleep." Her expression softens.  "As she does."
"She sensed it when we talked tonight, I assume."
"You and Dean are the most interesting thing she's run across in a while that isn't evil and out to kill us, which is depressingly unique," Alison says before adding with deliberate lightness, "She actually does want to talk to you, but I figured I'd break the ice while you were tired.  Spare her you freaking out and threatening to ritually execute her in the street, that kind of thing.  Just in case." 
So she's still unhappy about that.  It's not as if the entire afternoon yesterday didn't make that abundantly clear.  "That wasn't a threat.  It was more a glimpse of the road not taken, which is, in case this needs saying, is both very short and always ends badly."  She rolls her eyes. "You wanted to tell me yourself so you could see my expression yourself and not merely in Teresa's memory."
She shrugs.  "I neither confirm or deny that statement, Mr. You're Lucky You're Not Crazy Or Evil and Ritually Executed You Psychic Clairvoyant You."
"My human skills need work."
"You mean the part where you pretend you still don't have them or the part where you feel like actually using them?"  
"It's a pity you can't read my mind and discover the answer for yourself," he answers, noticing for the first time that while both socks are dingily off-white, one has red seaming while the other has a grey toe.  That they're different lengths he was aware of, but he could have sworn they were both at least solid white.  
"In this case, don't think I need to."  To his horror, she follows his gaze, and only with an effort does he avoid jerking his feet off the banister (and out of her sight), though why he would wish to do that he's not sure.  "You know you're--"
"They don't match, I'm aware," he snaps before he can stop himself.  Alison raises her eyebrows, eyes dancing in a way that's far worse than commentary.  "No matter how careful I am to assure they have their appropriate matches when I take them to the laundry, there's always one missing when I take them home to sort them.  It's become a problem."
"You do laundry?" she asks incredulously, sounding so eerily like Dean despite the difference in register that he smiles despite himself.  And much like Dean, the hazel eyes narrow in immediate suspicion.  "What?"
"Nothing." Ignoring Alison's scowl, he tries to focus on the empty street, but for reasons unknown, he can't stop looking at that glaringly red seam like some kind of fabric stigmata.  "It's annoying to wear non-matching socks."
"One of the great mysteries of laundry," she concedes. "Where they go, who knows?"
"That's only one of the questions I plan to ask them," he says grimly.  "As well as how, of course.  I've narrowed down the window of opportunity to some point between transferring to the dryer and when I retrieve the laundry to take it home, so it's only a matter of time."
"Ask who?" she asks, giving him a bemused look.  "God?"
"No, of course not;  even if He were here, this is far too elaborate and pointlessly annoying not to be one of His flights into infinite humor, and those He never bothered to explain.  Though that may be because He didn't create us with a sense of humor, so we wouldn't understand anyway."  she blinks at him, squinting as if trying to bring him into focus.  "I'll ask the dryer elves themselves--if they are indeed elves, which is still in question--before demanding the return of my socks. Unless they eat them, of course, which I wouldn't put past Him adding as a bonus."  Seeing her staring at him, he frowns. "What?"
"You think there are dryer elves?"
"As I said, that's still in question, but for now, Alicia's term is a convenience."
Alison's mouth opens and closes, twice.
"I can't stop noticing my socks are not only not matched in either length or pattern, but now are also two separate shades of off-white," he tells her, staring at the more off of the two resentfully.  "It's one thing to be mortal and deal with the natural--albeit strange, bizarre, and sometimes revolting--inconveniences of this state of being, but quite another for dryer elves to deliberately add to them.  Justice must be satisfied."
Alison sits back.  "Oh God, you're serious."  
He smiles at her.  "We are the weight and the scales and that which weighs all things; we are justice without mercy, vengeance without reprieve, chaos incarnate in defense of my Father's work.  Do you think I'd do less on behalf of my own property?"
Alison shakes her head on cue, staring at him in fascination.  "Dispense justice to dryer elves on behalf of your socks--"
"All of Chitaqua's socks," he corrects her, amused despite himself.  "So much of my life has changed, it's depressingly reassuring to realize some things never do."
"Come again?"
"Sodom or dryer elves. As I did before, I do now: it's only a difference in scale."  He shrugs, looking away from that penetrating gaze.  "You can't understand, of course.  Between the moment of your birth and the moment of your death, you will be a thousand people; what an angel is at the moment of their creation is what they will always be."
"Change is inherent in all things,'' she quotes without irony but with malice aforethought, relaxed for the first time tonight.  "You're living with us these days, Future Dispenser of Elf Justice.  What makes you so special that you get an exception?"
"Angels don't change," he replies.  "Lucifer is engaged in a temper tantrum that has lasted eons, if you require an example.  It started before you even qualified as sentient and fire still confused you.  You'd throw anything at it, including yourselves, yet not your food, not for millennia.  Why is that?"
"Since you're not an angel, that wouldn't be a problem, now would it?"  Her eyes unfocus when he eases a thought to the surface of his mind.  "Very funny, water?  Really?  To put ourselves out?"
He doesn't answer, watching as she belatedly realizes he didn't speak, hazel eyes widening in horror as she shrinks back into her chair.  "I didn't mean…."
"Insomnia is often a problem for psychics," he says mildly. "Generally, the solution to that would be to stop reading everyone in their range and going to sleep.  As I doubt that didn't occur to you, that narrows the possibilities considerably."  He flickers a glance at her foot pressed helplessly against the cast covering her other ankle before meeting her eyes, unable to keep the edge out of his voice despite her fear.  "You risked breaking your own ankle, arousing the justifiable suspicions of the leader of a hunter militia, and let's not forget, the summary judgment of a former angel rather than simply admit you can't control your abilities yet and they were giving you problems.  Congratulations: I'm not certain even Lucifer could match such a display of pride, and that is not a standard anyone should wish to reach, much less surpass."
She sucks in a breath, looking away.  "That last part I didn't see coming."
"Until Teresa told you what might happen if I ever came to Ichabod, I thought so."
"Yeah, but I didn't….never mind."  She blows out an angry breath.  "That's why you were down here tonight?  Waiting for me because you knew--"
"Dean guessed and asked me to confirm on the way here this morning," he interrupts.  "You're very good at hiding it, but Dean's very experienced with psychics dealing with new abilities.  He didn't like how much time you spent trying to walk on a sprained ankle, and he knew physical pain was an excellent distractor."  He hesitates.  "He was worried about you."
Her expression softens briefly. "Anything else?"
"You told Dean you thought it was a fluke, that you couldn't read him when you met.  Stop me if I'm wrong about what actually happened; it would be more accurate to say that when you met him, the number of unfamiliar minds yelling in your mind made it almost impossible to focus on any one.  Your abilities had recently escalated and you were having problems adjusting to it and still are." The hazel eyes widen. "Joseph would have noticed this level of stress when you first met, and considering your condition as Dean observed it after half a day meeting with the council a few days ago, there's no possible way you would have been able to attend three days of meetings, not to mention so successfully manipulate Joseph and Ana.  Did I miss anything?"
"It's like you were there."  She looks away, swallowing. "You're good."
"It's my job," he answers impatiently.  "What I don't understand is why you didn't simply…." He trails off, abruptly remembering how she looked when she first saw him, and then, quite vividly, a certain conversation at Dean's shooting range.  "First impressions."
"What?"
"When Dean was here," he asks slowly, wondering if he actually needs confirmation or can live happily in ignorance, "did you ask him to invite me here or was that polite fiction he was using with the best intentions to convince me to come here?"
"Yeah, I did, and by the way, it's been great," she answers flatly.  "Why?"
"You wanted to talk to me"  Starting to look confused, she nods, and he wonders if this is an example of irony or just desserts.  "This afternoon, in your kitchen, the coffee that was already prepared, that was not in any way in anticipation of us having this very discussion…." Her resentful glare is answer enough.  "Before I frightened you, yes."
"Execute me," she says flatly.  "In the streets.  Ritually.  I have no idea what that means, but I'm guessing when execution needs a special adjective, I probably don't want to know."
"First impressions," he agrees hopelessly.  "If it helps, I do recognize the irony of mocking the very concept immediately after deliberately making the worst one possible.  In my defense--"
"You didn't want to come here at all, I figured."  She sighs, looking at him with reluctant sympathy mixed with malicious amusement.  "I know I'm not the only one who had a shitty time at dinner tonight.  Psychic, remember?"
He stiffens, the memories of this evening forever and always as vivid as the moment they happened, then forces himself to relax again.  He supposes in fairness he can't blame her for enjoying that, but he doesn't feel particularly fair at the moment.  "I'm glad I was able to contribute to your enjoyment of the evening."
She rolls her eyes.  "I wouldn't say 'enjoyed'…."
"Suffice to say, I behaved very badly this afternoon when we met and I apologize for that," he interrupts sharply.  Upsetting Dean's friends isn't productive.
She makes a face, but finally nods agreement.  "Teresa told me--you had to be sure, I get that.  So apology accepted, it's fine."
"So let me try again." Pushing the blanket back, he glances toward the door.  "If you're amenable, I'll make coffee, and we can discuss what you wanted to talk to me about when you invited me here to ask for my help."
She hesitates, hazel eyes searching, before she nods.  "Yeah, that works."
"The last escalation was immediately after your second meeting with Joseph's team, when the towns accepted our offer?"
"Less than a day." Coffee is truly a wonder; half a cup, and Alison has mellowed considerably.  He'd assumed there must be some reason Dean liked her, and he resents realizing that very much.  "It's done this every few weeks since this started, but the last one was a doozy."  
He nods, taking a sip from his own cup, resenting Ichabod's superior coffee and his own enjoyment of it as well.  This can't be healthy.  "It's constant now?"
"All the time," she answers grimly.  "At first, I could--tune it out, just concentrate on something else, it was fine.  Each time, it got stronger, harder to do, but I could still do it.  Now--all day, every day, I have to--to work to ignore everyone, and it's like it's--it's fighting me.  I can tune everyone out for a little while, but it's exhausting as shit, and sometimes…."
"You can't."  She nods helplessly. "That's not surprising.  Usually, this is a gradual process, but very few manifest as powerfully as you did, much less progress so rapidly."
"Are you trying to be reassuring?" she asks, eyebrows raised in surprise.  "That's not, in case you need feedback on your people skills.  Not even a little."
"What you do is instinctive to you," he tries.  "It probably doesn't help to know this now, but you will adapt with time.  Your mind was formed with the potential for this--very specifically, it's supposed to be able to do this--whether it ever became active or not; it simply needs time to catch up to the reality.  In any case, your instincts will provide better guidance than another psychic could be for you at this point.  How you conceptualize what you see is intensely personal, and to combine that with that of another psychic...."
"Does this end with 'know thyself'?" she asks incredulously.  "I failed philosophy. Twice."
"You pay for your sins, both great and small," he intones, biting his lip against an unexpected smile at her expression.  "Perhaps you should have more regularly attended class?  It's simply a guess."  
She glares her feelings on the subject of her academic career over the rim of her coffee cup.
"It doesn't help, I know, but it will eventually get easier.  It's simply a matter of time."
"Teresa helps when she can."  She shrugs, taking another drink.  "Noise shared is noise halved, or something.  I concentrate on her, she can help me block out the rest. Mostly."
"You don't like to do that."
"Everyone deserves the privacy of their own minds," Alison answers softly.  "Just because she's willing doesn't mean I should ask her to give that up.  Not when--when I don't have to.  Noise is noise: it's not as if I even know most of the time who's thinking what unless I focus on them or they're physically close enough to drown out everyone else."  
Teresa, he suspects, is far more interested in Alison's sanity than any breach of privacy, but Alison's objections would limit her ability to help.  
"I commend you on your ethics," he says honestly.  "They're extraordinarily good, even taking into consideration the breaches committed on those we assigned to Chitaqua, since you neglected to inform Dean most were involuntary."  She rolls her eyes.  "You can't be blamed for using the information you discovered to better protect yourself.  You'd be stupid not to."
She shrugs, and he wonders how to explain how rare that is in a psychic, especially a new one.  Telepaths, especially powerful ones, rarely develop any ethical standard without either guidance or corrective discipline, and much depends on the early creation of habit to avoid slipping by accident.  Pamela is his only practical experience with one, but she'd been exposed to hunters from a very early age, and her abilities had developed over the course of her life, allowing her to learn to control herself before they became a danger to others.  Even Sam Winchester, the eternal exception to any rule that ever existed, didn't use them without thought, and while the Host--and Castiel--distrusted him, he never doubted his intentions.  That he slipped was not a surprise, of course, but unlike the Host, Castiel was perfectly willing to admit even then while there's always a choice, it would have been of infinite value to Sam to know that choice existed instead of being expected to intuit it from the ether.
(You like them too much, he was told by his superiors; he really should have told them he'd wondered what that feeling was, as he'd certainly never felt it for them, and asked them what they thought that might mean.  The answer would doubtless have been hideously painful, but it would have been worth it just for the memory of their expressions when he said it.)
"And now you have foldspace in your guest bedroom, which isn't helping you sleep either."  He'd suspected as much, even counted on it tonight; he'd be a very different kind of distraction, one even an experienced psychic might be unable to tune out: an infinite box (infinite being within a box?).  Now, however, he can't help but recognize the exhaustion she radiates, so habitual she probably hardly remembers what it's like to feel anything else and wonders if it should be some kind of consolation that she was telling the truth about how bad the evening was for her as well.  It's not, but perhaps he could pretend.  "Even if you were better able to control your abilities, I'm not sure it would help when it comes to me.  Angels can conceal their nature with Grace, and as you must be aware, I can't.  It tends to be uncomfortable for humans."
She starts to frown uncertainly.  "The box thing?"
Castiel starts to snap that no, she's the only one who seems to regard him as the equivalent of a metaphysical cubical container in a display of psychic individuality, then pauses, taking in her genuine confusion.  "At dinner tonight--"
"Okay, yeah, I owe you an explanation, fine."  She frowns at the street for a moment, looking--guilty?   "Look, it wasn't--Amanda said you weren't into crowds, okay?"
He stills, cup half-way to his mouth.  "She did."
"With words," Alison says, misinterpreting his expression.  "Original plan was small group, nice and quiet, but--I changed it up a little." She swings her gaze around, and yes, guilt. "This afternoon, I mean. After--uh, we met."
"You--"
"Made it bigger.  Much bigger."  She blows out a breath, slumping in her chair.  "Look, I was pissed, all right? If it helps, instant karma was at work; I was just as miserable as you were.  I had no idea you were that much not a people person."
"You didn't know…."   The first thing--the first thing she asked him when they met was if he was really an angel. Psychic box, but that's all.  "You didn't know."
She grimaces.  "I didn't think about the fun of that many people in one building, either."
"Too much to focus on any single one, yes."  From how she looked through dinner, she spent the majority of her time either failing to entirely block everyone in the room--with obviously stressful results--and possibly hating him for causing what had to be some very unpleasant emotional currents with no idea why they were happening.  "Teresa helped you block it tonight as well."
"Had to," she admits sourly.  "I get why you were pissed all night, okay, but that was my fault, not theirs.  You could have been less of a dick, though; that thousand yard stare of yours is deadly, and you deployed that thing like a weapon of mass destruction."
Castiel takes a deep breath.  "My human skills in large groups are somewhat rusty," he says around the warning tickle in his throat; this probably isn't the time.  "But I could have been less--hostile, yes."
She nods emphatically. "Seriously, yeah.  That was weird tonight."  Then, "Look, I'm sorry.  I'll apologize to Dean in the morning--"
"No, that's not necessary."  Dean's anger in their room tonight was unexpectedly intense, and at this moment, he can't predict what his reaction might be.  It's more than likely it was simply the strain of the evening--he could have handled that better, he supposes uncertainly, but time will certainly give him the opportunity to gain experience--but Dean enjoys his visits here far too much to sour them even in this small way.  "His lectures on appropriate behavior are well-meaning, but I wouldn't wish one of those on my worst enemy.  Or you."
Her worried expression eases, easy humor curving one corner of her mouth.  "They're that bad?"
"They're very sincere and at length," he explains.  "But if it helps, he only lectures people he likes."
Alison rolls her eyes, but he doesn't miss her relief, either; Dean makes friends as easily as he breathes, and he suspects that's one human skill he'll never possess.  Only now does it occur to him that his behavior with Alison this afternoon might have damaged Dean's rapport with these people, and that's unacceptable; he has so little here, it would be cruel to take this away as well.
"A box," he says before he can stop himself.  "Is that--all you sense when you see me?"
"A cold box," she corrects him with a hint of lingering malice, then wrinkles her nose.  "Well, not the cold part, at least not in person.  Very different than from what I picked up through Dean, though."  She snorts at his expression.  "Did I mention I'm kind of new at this?"
So, a cold or perhaps not box: this has been enlightening.  
"Kind of nice," she says with obvious reluctance, eyes narrowing on him in--that would be disappointment, yes, he's very familiar with it.  "Finally, one mind not shouting at me all the time--other than Dean's, I mean, which I appreciate--and then--" 
"I threatened you."  Alison's eyebrows jump, at the quiver in his voice that he fails to suppress: not the time, he reminds himself firmly.  "First impressions, yes.  Very important."
She nods wary agreement. "Yeah, right.  Uh, Cas--"
I wish to make an appropriate impression, he told Dean quite seriously.  He used those very words this morning.  He's almost sure he meant them.
It's too much; laughter bursts out in a sudden, almost painful gust, and with it goes the anger, draining away with each gasped breath.  One mind she couldn't hear, that wasn't trying to drive her insane, it was nice, she said; other than Dean's, she added.  
"Cas?"
Alarm, he should deal with that, though how, he's not sure.  In a different world--a better one, and there are many of those, all not filled to the brim with the hells he didn't create for himself--he was polite and asked to verify her integrity, and afterward, she asked him for his help over coffee this afternoon, and he might have been able to tell her that he understood very well how she felt.  Other than Dean and Chuck, she was the first person who looked at him and didn't feel that fundamental difference between them.  Like it wasn't even there.
"Cas?" Alison starts to look in danger of trying to get up.  "Should I--"
"No." Dropping his head back against the chair, he takes a deep breath, then another, feeling drained and suddenly very, very tired, an exhaustion that has nothing at all to do with the need for sleep.  It's a familiar feeling; despite its recent absence, he never truly believed that it wouldn't return eventually.  "It's been a very long day, is all. I suppose I'm simply tired."
"I was warned about your sense of humor," she says finally, setting her empty cup on the ground.  "Want to share the joke?"
He finishes the cold coffee without tasting it and setting the cup on the porch as well before thinking how to explain.  "Dean used to tell me I didn't have a sense of humor, and it annoyed me enough to make a study of it.  It was utterly inexplicable, and six days of the Comedy Network simply confused me."
She nods.  "So what was the moment of revelation?"
"About four years ago, I was with Dean under a log in the middle of a West Virginia field avoiding a rain of blood and toads--and what seemed to be the entirety of the FBI, CIA, DEA, two other acronyms I can't bother myself to remember, and a truly excessive number of bloodhounds-- and Dean was engaged in hysterics because I sat on a toad.  It was grotesque, and the sound interrupted my calculations on how much blood was being used and where on earth Lucifer was getting it."
Her mouth twitches before she makes an effort.  "Sounds shitty."  Then, "Okay, I'll bite: how much blood?"
"One hundred and seventy-four million gallons per hour per square mile, one, three, or five because my Brother likes prime numbers," he answers immediately.  "Ask me how many human bodies that would be.  Even accounting for density, the sheer scope of transmuting water into blood is--"
She bursts into laughter, bending to gasp helplessly against her upraised knees.
"I still haven't worked out where on earth he acquired that many amphibians, though evidence suggests it was worldwide endeavor, since at least two of the toads are only native to the Amazon," he continues, listening contentedly as her muffled howls begin to escalate. "I did several searches after, but worldwide data at that point was almost impossible to collate, so there are several places in the world even now who tell stories of the day all the toads vanished, since knowing my Brother, he wasn't subtle about acquiring them.  It may be an Apocalypse, granted, but mass toad dematerialization is memorable no matter the time period."
He pauses for a moment to observe Alison, who is making noises not unlike squeaking between helplessly gasped breaths.
"As you are now, so he was then," he finishes, slumping in his chair; it's remarkable how comfortable that is.  "Surrounded by the corpses of various amphibians and coagulating puddles, I realized I'd rebelled against the Host to be chased across the Deep South by a plethora of government agencies bent on arresting me on a truly excessive number of federal warrants--some, admittedly, for crimes I was guilty of committing--and was now sitting under a log in southern West Virginia during a rain of blood and amphibians caused by my Brother with someone who thought this was an appropriate time to indulge in a fit of hysterics because, of all things, I sat on a dead toad.  At least, I assume it was dead, it reached terminal velocity before the ground terminated its descent--" He pauses at her breathless gasp and stops fighting his smile.  "Should I…."
"Fine," she gasps helplessly, making a choked sound before straightening, face bright-red and mouth trembling.  Wiping her eyes, she hiccups another laugh before looking at him, hazel eyes bright.  "Sorry.  Keep going."
"No offense taken. It was--the future only held misery and privation, the past was unchangeable, and the present was beginning to smell of putrefying amphibian corpses and my socks were utterly soaked with what I knew wasn't water and would have to deal with as it began to dry.  Dean wouldn't stop laughing.  It was--unthinkable.  Nothing like this had ever happened to me before."  He looks up at the porch roof, unable to stop smiling.  "There was nowhere else I wanted to be or anyone else I wanted to be with at that moment.  Even if it was sitting on a dead toad and listening to Dean laugh at me.  Revelation is usually much less personally traumatic and generally doesn't require washing blood from my ears later."
(Later, a surprisingly shaken Dean would tell him he thought he was going crazy as they wrung out their (utterly revolting) socks, but he didn't care.  He remembered the warm, blood-and-mud churned earth soaking through his coat and bloody rain on his face and the hard ache in his chest from air he didn't need to breathe but did need to laugh, and it would start again, bubbling up in unexpected bursts.)
She grins at him.  "Yeah, that's pretty much the definition of humor."
"I'd been hoping for confirmation but never was sure how to ask."  He shrugs.  "I've been told mine can be an acquired taste."
"I wouldn't worry about them," she replies, eyes dancing. "Gotta say, whoever said that doesn't sound too bright."
"I suppose--if there's not anything else you wish to know, you should go to bed." Looking taken aback, her smile starts to fade.  "There's nothing I can do about the effect my presence has on you tonight, but while I told Amanda I would be here for training tomorrow--I suppose to increase her confidence, she wasn't clear--I'll tell Dean that something needs my attention at the camp and I need to deal with it immediately.  David will be reporting at noon, and if reality won't accommodate me, and it usually doesn't, I'll make something up."
"You're leaving?  Tomorrow?" she asks in dramatic example of stating the obvious.  "Why? Because I can't sleep?  My life, welcome to it.  I told you, it's not that bad…."
"It's very pleasant here, but I'm not--as you know--particularly social," he answers.  "I understand why Dean enjoys his visits here so much, but--"
"One shitty party and I get a lifetime grudge for it?  Come on."  Her eyes sharpen unsettlingly.  "You hate it here that much?"
"I'm not a people person.  I won't--do anything to limit Dean's visits, of course--"
"That's not…." She looks away.  "Well, nice meeting you, I guess."
Yes, it could have been, he appreciates the reminder.  Taking a deep breath, he starts to get to his feet. "Likewise.  If there's nothing else--"
"It was the Atlantic."
He stops mid-motion.  "What?"
"Earlier--you were thinking of water.  Atlantic ocean, east coast--Massachusetts, Gay Head Cliffs."  Her mouth tightens.  "Sorry it took so long to put it together--"
He drops back into his chair, staring at her.
"--but it was harder than I thought."  She looks at him challengingly.  "So did I pass your test or what?"
"Describe what you saw."
She takes a deep breath, looking annoyed.  "I told you--Atlantic Ocean, Massachusetts, Gay Head Cliffs--late summer, I think." Her eyes unfocus.  "Late afternoon, empty beach--oh, never mind, they're in the water, missed that earlier."
"Who's in the water?" he asks mechanically, lips numb.
"One--nope, make that two kids," she answers, expression softening.  "Looks like they're having a blast, wish I was there."  She sighs, eyes focusing again. "Look, it was a lot of information--I've never had to work this much to get it all before.  Usually, it's--"
"--effortless, yes."  He tries to think.  "Is that all?"
"God, no," she answers, which is exactly what he didn't want to hear.  "Just what I have so far. It's gonna takes me a little more time to get the rest."
"That would be forever," he murmurs, then shakes his head at her sharp look.  "That wasn't a test."
"Then what was it?"
"A memory." He focuses at the empty street, the darkness broken periodically by pools of dim yellow light.  "When he was very young, Dean's father left him at a small motel near the Atlantic coastline while he worked a job nearby. As usual, it took longer than he expected, and there were limited amusements to be found at the motel, so Dean went exploring and ended up at the beach.  He'd never seen the ocean before, and he thought it went on forever."  He licks his lips, remembering.  "He spent hours playing in the surf, and it was very warm--he always remembered it that way, warm and very safe, happy, free, I think.  He'd never seen anything but a motel swimming pool in his life before then, and after that, they felt wrong, to small, too…." He cuts himself off.  "Only a child would look upon the Atlantic Ocean and judge its safety by the lack of chemicals and the warmth of the water.  Only John Winchester would think to leave children unsupervised by the second largest body of water on the planet and not consider the danger."
She checks a nod.  "Your memory?"
"Yes."  Mouth dry, he licks his lips. "As an angel--he was my charge, and while all human thought is open to us, his--I was curious.  He used to think of the ocean when he was troubled, and I wanted to know why.  It was a simple matter to go to that time and place and watch him for myself.  Infinite knowledge isn't the same as personal experience; it was a lesson I should have remembered.  He said something a few days ago--it's not important, it reminded me of that."
"I wonder what he would have made of the Pacific," she muses, head in hand.  "Valente beach: me and Neer were on vacation in LA a few years ago.  Never been so cold in my life while getting a sunburn." She shrugs at his expression.  "It's very cold, Cas.  You aren't ready for that in one hundred and six degree heat."
He stares at her, not sure if he's supposed to answer that. It's true, after all; it is indeed very cold.
"Who's the other kid with him?"  Castiel freezes.  "Family, best friend, random meeting on the beach?  Probably not the last--at least, it didn't feel random.  Close?  Very close, actually--what?"  Her eyes widen.  "Cas, what's wrong?"
"Nothing," he answers automatically.  "Just surprised, is all."
"Why?  You showed it to me."  She frowns a little, eyes unfocusing.  "Though gotta tell you, not easy to put it together.  Like--"
"--a lot of information?  It would be.  That memory was created while I was deliberately in linear time, so its singular in time, but not in place.  Yes, it would take you a very long time to put it together in its entirety, but I wouldn't recommend it, though admittedly, Andromeda was developing sixteen forms of sentient life and one reached the equivalent of the stone age at that very moment…. You'd find it fascinating, but I don't think that Time will last long enough for you to get there. And your mortality would also be of concern--"  He forces himself to stop.  "As I said, it was a surprise."
"I wish I could read your mind right now," she says softly.  "So I'd know why you're looking at me like that."
"You're stronger than I thought," he tells her.  "Much stronger."
"What does that mean?  Why--" Abruptly, the color drains from her face. "Cas?  Just tell me."
He'd lie if he thought it would help, but in this case, ignorance is dangerous.  "Latent psychics manifest at only a fraction of their full abilities, sometimes in childhood, but more often during early puberty, when the brain is far more malleable.  The time it takes to reach their threshold is variable, but it's usually a matter of years, not months.  And you…."  He makes himself continue.  "Alison, you read the memory of an angel--at least, all you had the context to understand--from the tiniest portion I focused on to give you in a single glimpse, because even now, I have to be careful when exposing you.  If that's what you can do after only four months…."
"It started too strong and too late, it's progressing too fast, and I'm not near the threshold after four months," she finishes for him, voice breaking on the last word.  Reluctantly, he nods.  "It's going to get stronger?  How much more…."
"There's no way to be certain."  He remembers that night in Kansas City with Dean, seeing all of Creation with human senses; it's no consolation to realize now that even a human mind can find it difficult to focus.  Spending all her time and energy simply keeping herself from being subsumed in those around her leaves very little time to do anything else, and it won't ever become easier.  "You said it's quieter at night, but everyone in this building would be asleep at night, so your range is farther than that now."  She nods shortly.  "All of Ichabod?" She closes her eyes. "Farther?"
She wets her lips, hazel eyes bleak.  "South fields now.  Patrol's outer perimeter, I guess.  Hans was…he tripped.  German profanity, learned a lot."  Taking a deep breath, she nods. "So going crazy, definitely on the table."
"No, of course not--"
"I hear too much now, and I'm not even trying," she snaps, voice breaking again.  "And you're telling me it's going to get worse? I'm not strong enough for this!"
"You are," he answers, feeling more helpless than he has at any time since he Fell.  "You just don't know it yet."
Alison blinks, starting to frown.  "What did you just--"
"When I was angel," he continues, "it wouldn't have mattered.  Grace makes all things possible.  I could have shown you everything in a thought.  I could have controlled it for you until you believed you could do it yourself."
"When you were an angel, you wouldn't have even thought of it."  She shrugs, looking away.  "This much about angels I think I can guess from what Teresa said.  This is life in quantum, and angels see the universe in its entirety.  I would have been far too small for you to notice or care if you did."  She rolls her eyes when he starts to protest, though how he'd do so while avoiding hypocrisy is a mystery. "Care in the individual, Cas, not the whole.  This is--small, nothing.  I'm a drop in infinity."  
Glancing at the window behind which Dean sleeps in oblivious comfort, she pauses, looking surprised.  "The ocean," she breathes.  "That's why he thought of it.  That's perfect.  I always sleep like gangbusters on cruises.  Never get seasick, got lucky there: Neer gets queasy just looking at water.  Tell Dean thanks for that one."
"I have no idea what you're talking about."  She looks her disappointment in his inability to lie well.  "You have no idea what you're talking about.  You can't even read his mind!"
"I don't need to," she answers.  "Experience, not infinite knowledge, you said; that's why you were thinking about it today."
"He thinks of me as the Atlantic Ocean?  Warm, safe, and prone to violent hurricanes that regularly devastate the coastline?"
"No, the Atlantic is a motel pool," she answers reasonably.  "What else could it be after seeing an infinite ocean?  Can't even imagine the hurricanes there." She snorts.  "Hell of a lot better than your comparison, by the way.  Folded fucking space…."
"Now that's interesting."
"What?  It's a good analogy."
"You seem to think so, yes." Before she can answer, he stops her with a shake of his head.  "Tell me what it's like for you now?  Anything like…" He thinks for a moment.  "A very large party?  Very loud, far too many people--trying to find a lightswitch?  Machetes."  Alison's blank stare isn't encouraging..  "It's how I--never mind.  It's a metaphor."
"A big party," she says, checking for his nod.  "Lots of people, loud music, everyone getting high and talking about their personal revelations at the top of their lungs whether you care or not--I've been to parties like that."
"I've had parties like that."  He grins at her mocking expression of shock.  "Next time you see Amanda, mention the transcendental qualities of 'shrooms. Trust me, what she'll think of will be--unflattering, yes, but extremely funny."
"Using my powers for personal amusement?" she asks, a reluctant grin tugging at her lips.  "What kind of angel are you?"
"One with an extremely long bucket list to check off, and it's still in progress," he answers, bracing an elbow on the arm of his chair.  "So the party?"
"Uncannily accurate, now that I think about it.  Why?"
"Your one thing," he murmurs, swinging his legs off the rail and turning the chair to face her before sitting down again. "Let's try a variation, however.  You'll need to be facing me for this."
She raises an eyebrow.  "What am I doing?"
"Something new," he answers, grinning at her. "Be not afraid, for--"
"Whoa, that's spooky," she remarks, tilting her head to study him.  "Tell me you had a halo.  Dean didn't know."
"I'll tell you anything you want," he answers impatiently.  "If you'll please do this, as it's late, I may or may not be experiencing a sense of tiredness--"
"--and you want to go cuddle with your boyfriend?" she asks sweetly.  "Join the club: substitute 'my girlfriend' where relevant."
"Ten minutes and we'll both get our wish," he says. "Or I could move you myself.  Angelic strength is useful for so many things."
She scowls. "Fine."  She carefully shifting her legs to the ground and turns in her chair to face him, performing a picture-perfect attitude of rapt attention.  Oscars have been given for far less.  "Now what?"
"I'm going to show you something, and you won't understand it at first, but hold it in your mind, every detail.  Close your eyes; I need you to focus."  With a dubious look, she obeys, and he closes his eyes as well, carefully forming the image in his mind and filling in each precise detail this time, aware he's skirting very close to what he once believed was far too dangerous for any human mind.  Time has taught him, if nothing else, that it's usually safe to assume that nothing the Host taught him could possibly be true if they believed it, and the limitations of human mind is only one of those things.  Opening his eyes, he studies her frown of concentration.  "Do you see it?  Describe it."
Frown deepening, she licks her lips.  "A lot of emptiness, really interesting--" She stops, tilting her head.  "Wait, it's not empty.  It's--waiting?"
"Good."  Taking a deep breath, he continues.  "What else?"
"There's a dot," she says, screwing up her face.  "Just off-center or so.  Tiny, but it's bright."
"It's very small," he agrees.  "It's still growing.  It needs time.  Focus on it, every detail.  You seem to have a talent for that." She pauses, biting her lip.  "Do you have it?"
"Yeah, got it."  She opens her eyes curiously. "Okay, I give up.  What is it?  Andromeda?"
"Infinity."  He doesn't laugh when her mouth drops open, but it's very hard.  "The space around it is in abeyance--potential, unused, still waiting for form.  What will be infinity once it's filled."
She lets out a low whistle.  "Wow.  Where did you get this?"
"Before I rebelled, I never knew that space existed.  What I could see was only within that tiny light.  Afterward, when I still had Grace, when I could still see all things, that space appeared at its edges--the waiting, as you call it--and I was curious what it was."  He remembers looking at it for a long time before finally seeking it out, trying to find the meaning of it, and every time he looked, it grew larger, wider, a vastness that he began to realize was without limit.  "At first I couldn't understand what I was seeing or why it was empty.  It was new--the first new thing I'd ever seen there.  I suppose it had always been there, but I hadn't known to look.  I still don't know why I did."
She nods before saying, very gently, "You can't see it anymore?"
"No."  When I'm very high, when I'm very stoned, when I'm very drunk, I pretend I still can.  "Not since I Fell.  This is only a memory of the last time I looked."
To his relief, she doesn't inquire further.  "So it's waiting.  Waiting for what?"
"For you." The memory alone is still enough to make him catch his breath.  "Thoughts you haven't had, dreams you haven't dreamed, hopes you haven't yet formed, choices you haven't made--potential unrealized.  The length of your life that is yet to be lived in all you aren't yet and haven't decided to be, all you'll ever do." He finds himself staring up at the slice of sky beyond the porch roof and starless night beyond.  "The human mind--infinity bothers you, it always has, you can't really see it, and it can drive you insane if you try.  This is why: that dot is all angels can see because we live within it, all that is and was and will be, all that is known, but you--your mind is already spoken for, it has far too much to do creating what wasn't before and isn't yet and almost is, and could and would and should be."  
She stares at him, mouth dropping open.  "Holy.  Shit."
"Know thyself," he says.  "What I showed you was yourself, that light surrounded by potential.  You're not a drop of infinity, none of you are; you are its creators."
She blinks, wordless; experience suggests that's rare for her.
"And to think," he tells her, "I used to have to contemplate amoebas.  It's--"
"Funny," she finishes for him.  "I get you there."
"I thought you would.  Now look at all of it, all that is there to see."  He watches her, the hazel eyes still unfocused.  "You did it before, and you weren't even trying."
She wets her lips, forehead creasing in effort.  "It's--it's a lot…." Her lips part in shock.  "Oh my God."
"What do you see?"
One cold hand abruptly closes over his wrist, eyes opening blindly, and he watches, breathless, as she shows him: a vastness that reaches the length of Creation, the darkness shattering at each flare of light, supernovas bursting into being before his eyes.
"That's it," he whispers as more appear, each faster than the last; she's learning.  "It's perfect."
"There are--Christ, they're everywhere.  How many….?" He fights back a laugh when more appear, flooding her mind with light.  "There are more?"
"All who were, are, and will be," he answers, feeling his own smile at the awe in her voice.  "We can watch it all, if you wish, but that might take a while."
She nods shortly, another field of brilliance appearing.  "Right, so--how do I stop?"
"That's easy," he answers. "The first thing I showed you; that was you.  One light among all that you see; go and find it."
"You're kidding.  Here?" Her hand tightens on his wrist.  "I can't--"
"Of course you can."  It expands again, almost but not quite out of her control, not yet.  "Your one thing, Alison; it's yourself.  Now find it."
She licks her lips, forehead creasing in effort, and he spares a wary look at the arms of the chair beneath one white-knuckled hand, wondering distractedly if anyone here knows how to repair wood.  The fabric is most definitely going to be a loss, but a competent upholsterer can take care of that.  His wrist, on the other hand….
"You're strong enough," he says quietly as beads of sweat begin to form, glittering on her forehead like captive stars.  "You've never been anything else."
She begins to tremble.  "Cas--"
"You can do this."  Even an angel can't convince someone of anything that isn't true.  "Until you can believe it yourself, believe me.  One light among many, all that you are and were and could ever be, it's before you now."  Reaching out, he cups her face, making her meet his eyes.  "Show me.  Now."
It stops; a moment frozen, a vast stretch of brightness, before it begins to narrow again, and her mind forms that first point of brightness, blurred and unsteady like an uncertain picture before she focuses and it comes to life.  
She sucks in a breath, her expression turns into wonder as the single, shining point of light filling both their minds, flawless.
"Perfect," he says softly. "Well done."
She sucks in a shaky breath, exhaling slowly.  "That's me?"
"Yes."  He tilts his head.  "What do you hear now?"
"I--"  Her eyes widen, hazel eyes focusing on him in shock.  "Nothing.  How….crap!" The image wavers when her concentration weakens--and with it, he assumes the sounds of patrol, possibly near the south fields--and he watches in satisfaction as she focuses on it again, holding it carefully in her mind this time before neatly splitting her attention.  "What did you do?"
"You're doing it," he corrects her, wondering if there's any subtle way to ask her to let go of his wrist.  "What a psychic does is glimpse infinity--limited, of course, human minds are far too busy to contemplate the endless wonders of the amoeba, much less all Creation--and how you interpret it will always be personal.  Eventually, your mind would have--from self-defense, if nothing else--learned to filter it, but until then…."
She nods, forehead creasing when the image wavers again.  "How long can I--"
"Eventually, with practice, you'll be able to do it indefinitely, but I don't recommend it," he answers honestly. "In a sense, this is a dam, and for that matter, your first dam, and it's not very strong yet.  When you begin to feel the strain, let it dissolve immediately, and wait until the feeling subsides fully before trying again.  Otherwise--"
"Because it could break," she says, nodding.  "Good metaphor, you're getting better.  Don't tell me--it breaks, insanity's on the table?"
"It's possible but extremely unlikely," he answers dismissively.  "Drop it now."
"What? No--"
"It's your first, and it's not strong," he interrupts.  "I want to make sure you can do it again from the beginning.  Keep projecting--I need to watch while you do it."
She sighs deeply and clears her mind, wincing slightly, and he winces as well; she's a very good projector, and apparently has no problem at all with using it to make sure he suffers along with her.  Despite that--the patrol, the power plant, several people with insomnia, several very cranky children, if it's like this at night, he has no desire to find out what it's like when everyone is awake--he's finds himself fascinated.
"Cas?"  The projection starts to fade, edged with worry.  For him.
"No," he says, shaking his head quickly.  "I'm fine. It's--different."
"From when you were an angel?" He nods distractedly. "Hold on, I think--yeah." 
He stills at the flood of sensory data, organizing it instinctively--
"Whoa," Alison breathes, startled.  "That's fast."
It's not, linear time is so tedious, entire milliseconds passed; out of time is far preferable.  A human mind is far more than the thin layer of conscious thought she was able to interpret now, and for him, it's effortless.  
"Can I do that?" she asks softly, and he hesitates, thinking about it.  
"You could, eventually," he answers slowly, holding her eyes.  "A human mind can be as open to you as a book, and you can do what you will with it.  Read it, write in it--"
"Destroy it," she says, revulsion rippling through her so strongly contact nausea is a problem. 
He nods.  "One day, yes."
"I don't want this, Cas," she says, starting to sound frantic: fear, the most dangerous thing of all.  "I could hurt someone--"
"I could break your neck before you even realize I've moved," he says patiently.  "And yet, I don't."
Her eyes narrow.  "It's not the same thing!"
"You can be a weapon," he answers, tilting his head.  "As I can be.  That doesn't mean you are one, or you can't choose how you use it.  Free will: perhaps you've heard of it?"
She glares back, baffled annoyance replacing the fear; excellent.  "That doesn't help!"
"It should; it's the entire point of your existence."
Comprehension washing over her face.  "This afternoon--you weren't just being a dick.  You really were worried about me. About what I could do."
"I was being a dick," he corrects her.  "But yes, it was also genuine concern.  Dean's judgment is excellent, but I had to be certain."
She hesitates.  "You didn't know I was this strong, either."
"It's irrelevant."  She stares at him blankly.  "I'm not worried you'll abruptly decide to use your abilities for personal gain and assemble a mind-controlled army to try and conquer the earth.  Though," he admits, considering it thoughtfully, "even then, you'd definitely be preferable to my Brother. So there's that."
She shuts her mouth with an audible click of teeth.
"Now," he says reluctantly, turning his attention back to what they should be doing and away from the fascinating currents of human minds he's been following with half his attention, "you need to practice.  Three times, from the beginning: I'll watch."
Sinking back in chair, she sighs.  "I see what you mean."
"It won't always be this tiring," he answers, and finally, she lets go of his wrist to rub her eyes.  Surreptitiously, he tugs down the sleeve of his jacket, but unfortunately, she opens her eyes to glare at him and notes her own hand, short fingernails crusted with drying blood. "Uh--"
"What the hell--"  Incredulous, her gaze darts from her hand to his wrist, and reaches to jerk back the cuff.  "Did I---stupid question, of course I did."
'It's not that bad," he tries, then sighs, looking in resignation at the ring of bruises dotted with red half-moons and bites his lip, remembering Dean's wrist that day in Kansas City.  "Karma in action, it seems."
"What?" she asks distractedly before looking toward the door.  "Look, give me a minute, I'll--"
"Don't," he interrupts, bracing a foot on the arm of the chair before she can get up.  "Dean will just redo it when he sees it anyway.  Alicia's an EMT, and he does it to her, so spare yourself the effort."
"Dean."  Alison groans, closing her eyes as her head thumps back against the chair.  "He's going to kill me.  Ran his boyfriend out of town and injured him on the same night."
"He won't--"
"He will."  Abruptly, she looks at him, deliberately widening her eyes in a startlingly convincing imitation of hope.  "Or….injury yes, but an accident, and you don't storm out of town a day early.  Give me another chance to play nice; I can."
Despite himself, he smiles. "After I threatened to execute you?"
"I'm over it," she answers, gesturing expansively with her slightly bloody hand.  "Water under the bridge."
To his surprise, he's not entirely opposed to the idea.  "Alison--"
"Just think about it, okay?"
"You should be able to sleep now," he says abruptly before he can agree immediately; morning is early enough, that party was terrible. Standing up, he stretches absently before picking up the blanket and folding it over one arm and extending a hand to Alison, he helps her to her feet.  "I'm very glad that worked for you, by the way."  
She pauses in her reach for her cane, squinting up at him suspiciously. "Me, too."
"I was sure it would."  As they reach the door and he starts to open it for her, he adds blandly,  "Provided it didn't lead to permanent insanity, of course. The infinite can be troubling, as I said."
Whirling around, she glares up at him, cane slamming into the floor and giving the impression she's thinking of his head.  "I could have gone crazy from seeing that?"
"Of course not," he assures her.  "I was an angel of the Lord.  Getting humans to believe me was in my job description."
Her mouth opens before she closes it with an audible snap.  "You…."
"That was my A game," he says, smiling down at her.  "And it's very good indeed.  But it only works when what I say is true."
She blinks at him slowly, and idly, he wonders what she's calling him in her mind right now.  
"Thank you, Castiel," she grates out.  "Is there anything I can do for you?"
"I was created to serve," he answers wistfully as he follows her inside.  "My reward is having done good, as you know.  Though--" he pauses at the sight of the kitchen and decides perhaps Ichabod's coffee shouldn't be despised after all.  "I would like a few pounds of your coffee if you can spare it.  It's far superior to what we have at home."
Despite his efforts to remain silent changing clothes for bed--which are very good indeed--Dean eyes slit open almost before he reaches what he assumes is his side of the bed, sleepy but startlingly focused.  
"Hey."  Yawning, he sits up, rubbing his eyes sleepily, hair smashed flat on the right side of his head, and Castiel forgets what he was going to do before bed.  "So--wait, get in first, it's freezing."  Castiel watches blankly as Dean reaches to shove the covers back invitingly.  "Well?"
"It's barely forty-five Fahrenheit."  Dean raises an eyebrow in eerie similarity to Alison, and taking a deep breath, he eases himself down on the (very comfortable) mattress, pulling up the blankets and arranging them meticulously around him, aware of Dean curled in a warm, sleepy bundle only inches away, watching him intently.  
Salome danced for King Herod wearing scarves and chains of gold (and very little of both) for the head of John the Baptist; she was an amateur.  Dean in two layers of clothing and under a pile of blankets could request Lucifer's heart and liver at this moment and he'd have them both at his feet before the break of dawn.
He reflects that he'd always assumed insanity--when it finally came, no matter how tardy it might be--would be somewhat freeing and not at any point involve the beginnings of a complicated plan to summon the last archangel in existence for extempore disembowelment.  He's not even sure he has the right knife with him, and his supply of holy water may not be adequate.  How he'd get to Jerusalem is anyone's guess, but perhaps….
"So how'd it go?" Dean prompts him, distracting him from trying to remember where the weakest point in spacetime is at this moment and if its thinned enough for potential opening with sufficient power; Ichabod does have an excellent power grid, after all, and electricity is indeed a form of power.  "Cas?"
"You were right," he answers, just stopping himself from filing away this for future thought.  He's not--actually--going to acquire anyone's internal organs for Dean's pleasure; for one, it's insane(he thinks), and Dean hasn't asked.  There's something fundamentally wrong with that logic, he knows, but Dean's t-shirt-covered shoulder emerges from the quilt for a dizzying moment and he doesn't really care.  "About Alison, I mean.  However, I think she'll be better able to control it now.  It's very new, but with practice--"
"Not what I meant."  He shrugs.  "Though yeah, that too."
"I don't know--" He starts to shrug as well, and winces as the thick wool grazes his wrist; that's what he was going to do before coming to bed.  Dean frowns.  "Everything's fine, yes."
Dean's eyebrows draw together suspiciously, one bare arm emerging from beneath the quilt like Venus from the sea, draped in foam the exact green of Dean's eyes, and he did not, did not just think that.  For one, he remembers that day, and the green was far inferior to--
"I'm fine," he says a little desperately, meeting Dean's eyes (not foam at all: unset jade still untapped in the deepest of the earth, late summer leaves last seen in Eden itself).  People sleep in beds together all the time, and sometimes they don't even have sex.  This will be one of those times, but biology seems to be brutally unaware of that fact at the moment, and-- "Incipient insanity, you needn't be concerned.  I think."
Dean opens his mouth, then abruptly focuses on the sheet between them.  Following his gaze, Castiel sees a dark smear starting on the (unnaturally white) sheet near the pillow trailing down between them to disappear beneath the blankets in an inevitable path to his wrist.  It's very dark, but Dean is a hunter, and a touch is all he needs.  "Cas?"
"Yes, that."  He takes a careful breath.  "I forgot about that."
"That you're bleeding?" Dean asks incredulously, sitting up, flannel and faded quilt pooling alluringly around his waist, revealing the Grateful Dead logo stretched across the expanse of his chest, and Castiel forgets to breathe.  "Where?  How…."
Dean viciously jerks back the blankets--oh God, bare feet--and Castiel with no clear idea of what he's doing extends his wrist, resigned to the obvious hatred the universe feels for him that proves itself merciless when cool fingers wrap around his arm and tug his wrist--and him--closer.  With an effort, he tears his gaze from the vivid purple ring of bruising and crescents of tacky-dried blood to look at Dean's flushed face.
That, he reflects far too late, is a mistake.  
"What the fuck…"
"I'd bring all of Creation to its knees for your pleasure," he breathes and means every terrifying word.
"Nice try," Dean snarls back, hands at odds with his voice, almost achingly gentle.  "Now, what the hell were you two doing out there?  Did she do this? Why?"
He opens his mouth to answer and stops himself; he honestly doesn't know what might come out next, and he sincerely desires not to find out.
"You're gonna tell me all about it," Dean promises grimly, sliding out of bed and stomping to their bags.  "While I fix it."
Forty-five minutes later--soap and water, peroxide, alcohol bath, antibiotic, topical anesthesia, all unneed, true, but who is he to argue with Dean's technique--his head is perfectly clear, and only awareness of the contrast is how he knows that earlier, it wasn't.  
"I sent you to talk to her," Dean insists, carefully finishing the wrapping and securing it with tape.  "Not for her to claw your skin off!"
"It was an accident," he replies. Again.  "I almost broke your wrist--"
"That's different!" Dean snaps.  Again.  "Talk, not--"
"She needed help, I provided."
"You don't even like her!" Dean says incredulously.
"I never said that."
"You didn't need to."  Sitting back cross-legged--and apparently no longer concerned with the current temperature, which is actually well above fifty--Dean stares at him.  "Look, after that dinner tonight…." Abruptly, he looks down to study the tangle of bedcovers intently.  "I know you said you were fine--"
"I am," he answers, with far more honesty now than then. 
"I'm not." Dean glances up, a flicker of something he can't read passing across his face before he looks away again.  "I've been thinking--"
"When?" he asks, startled.  "You were asleep before I went out.  You were snoring, in fact."
Dean's head comes up sharply. "I don't snore."
"A regular snort in the indrawn breath followed by a breathy exhale, every fourth period of respiration," he recites, not sure what to make of Dean's expression.  "Rather soothing, like a metronome that occasionally mumbles--"
"I don't," Dean says slowly and very, very clearly, "snore.  And why are we talking about this again?"
That, he decides, is the kind of rhetorical question that one should never, ever answer.
"Anyway," Dean says warningly, "I guess I woke up, happy?  I was thinking about this--"
"I wasn't fine before," he interrupts.  "Now, however, I am.  More importantly, if I wasn't, I'd make myself be."
Dean blinks his desire for actual information.  Not as precise as telepathy, but Dean's very expressive and at this moment, ambiguity is not a problem.
"She's a very quick learner, but technically speaking, I'm not a psychic, she's not an angel, and context is lacking.  I thought after meeting Teresa that she would be enough, but I'm not sure."
Dean licks his lips.  "She's not--she's not dangerous, Cas.  Fine, she pissed you off with the party thing, I get that…." He trails off, wincing.  "Okay, that was shitty, you wouldn't--never mind, sorry."
"I reserve the right to take offense in the morning," he answers dismissively.  "Yes, she's dangerous, but so am I and so are you.  She should be dead by now, and the only reason she isn't is whatever's keeping this state a utopia of peace and quiet."
"Because she's that strong?" Dean asks, leaning back on one hand and looking into the middle distance.  "What you said about the Host earlier, for the record, I didn't know angels did that.  Human shit, non-intervention--when it's not part of your dad's plan, of course."
"That's because generally, we don't have to--or rather, the potential remains unrealized," he starts.  "They tend to go insane, kill themselves--or inspire someone very committed and somewhat suicidal to do it for them--or they're killed before they're strong enough to fight back. Or even know there's something to fight."  He hesitates.  "Whatever is protecting Kansas, when it falls, this town will be like a beacon, and nothing and no one will be spared to kill her before she even learns how to use her abilities, much less reach her full potential."
Dean sucks in a breath.  "You didn't say anything earlier."
"I didn't know until an hour ago."  He sighs, annoyed.  "I didn't want to, and that was my mistake, which is now rectified.  Despite what I said, I--wasn't actually as resigned to this visit as I may have seemed."
"You don't say."  Dean rolls his eyes; apparently, that was more obvious than he thought.  "So that's why you're suddenly saying you're okay with being here?  To--make sure she doesn't go evil or…."
"Protect her from evil as well as this town," he says, tilting his head in bewilderment.  "My job, as it were."
"I thought angels killed psychics."
"I'm a hunter," he says slowly, wondering if perhaps that unfortunate earlier--incident--is now affecting Dean. "We protect people.  She is a person.  Ergo, I shall protect her.  We will, I mean, unless you have some objection."
Dean smiles, slow and remarkably satisfied.  "Yeah, you are. And this afternoon, the avenging angel--"
"Former.  That was then, and this is now."  He shrugs.  "I contain multitudes."
Dean bursts out laughing.
After packing up the kit and putting it back in his bag, Dean crawls into bed, and wary, Castiel relaxes when there's no bewildering comparisons to Salome or Venus, nor a pressing desire to conquer the world in Dean's name.
(Lucifer's heart and liver are still on the table, but honestly, they've never been off it, so there's that.  That's just good fun.)
"My watch," Dean tells him as he wriggles under the covers--highly distracting, and very much worth extensive contemplation, excellent--before rolling on his side.  "What about that?"
"What about it?" he replies absently, resigned when biology continues to be very inconvenient indeed.  And his next scheduled shower isn't until tomorrow night; perhaps he could borrow someone else's shower.  It bears investigation.
"For my pleasure," Dean answers, getting Castiel's undivided attention at the slow, deliberate drawl that turns 'pleasure' into several obscenely long syllables.  "How about fixing my watch?  It's been broken almost since I got here."
Castiel narrows his eyes.  "Fuck you."
"Get my watch fixed," Dean says smugly, "and I'll think about it."
Dean's in an surprisingly good mood when he joins them for breakfast, which Castiel assisted Amanda in preparing, much to her dubious assent and almost insulting surprise, while Alison and Teresa explained their usual daily schedule to Dean.  To his surprise, Castiel fell asleep remarkably fast despite the unfamiliar surroundings, distracting bedmate, and biology; perhaps he's getting better at sleep.  Dean's snoring was very soothing.
"So what's on the schedule for today?" Castiel asks politely as everyone sits down at the worn dining room table for a late breakfast.  In honor of their visit--and due to the fact that today Amanda will begin her first training class for Chitaqua's potential hunters--Alison and Teresa, along with Tony and several members of Ichabod's council, took the morning off their usual duties to observe and provide encouragement to the new trainees, who today will meet at ten instead of the dawn.
("Hangovers," Amanda told Dean when he asked.  "They all partied like it was the last day of their lives last night. I'm not gonna be a monster on their first day." She looked at Castiel, eyes narrowing.  "Unlike some people I could name."
"If I can fight with a hangover," he told her from the stove, "I see no reason any of you should be unable to do so.  After all, you would definitely need to one day, from my observations of your usual habits."
"You'd know," Amanda shot back.  "You organized some of our habits yourself.  All day events, if I remember correctly."
Dean said, horrified, "What is it about 'making a good impression' don’t you two get?"
Alison and Teresa pretended they were choking on their excellent coffee, ten pounds of which is currently in Castiel's bag.)
Here, sunrise isn't necessarily the beginning of anyone's day.  Manuel only just went to bed after his night on patrol, while his fiancée Mercedes and Sudha started at dawn in this building's communal garden, tending to their portion of the town's winter crops.  The other residents are already engaged in their daily tasks, which means that Castiel's first attempt at pancakes is currently being evaluated by only Dean, Alison, Teresa, and Amanda, with a promise to Manuel that if successful, some be saved for him when he awakens this afternoon.
"Nothing new for them," Amanda says over her forkful, looking almost insultingly surprised after taking a wary bite. "Wow.  You can cook? Since when?"  Her eyes travel to Dean, one corner of her mouth quirking. "I withdraw the question."
"Shut up," Dean mumbles happily around his fork, already half-way through his stack of four.  Castiel makes a mental note to assure they have sufficient flour to make them a regular addition to Dean's menu at Chitaqua; it's rare now for him to show so much enthusiasm when eating.  Dean gives him a significant look that escapes him before he abruptly remembers that Dean can't ask questions about training since he's supposed to be the one to have designed it.
"For the benefit of Alison and Teresa," Castiel says, taking a sip of the truly superlative coffee, and ignoring Dean rolling his eyes at his attempt at subtlety, "perhaps you could explain."
Amanda looks up mid-chew and swallows quickly. "First week is evaluation," she says, turning her attention to Teresa and Alison.  "It's stuff they all know from either patrol here or from what me and Mark showed them, see what they're good at and what needs work.  Then we'll start working on getting it through their heads that they're not coming out of this able to take on a demon and kill it with their bare hands.  Not gonna happen."
"Stronger, faster, and superpowers," Dean agrees like he's ticking off each point from an internal list, which he probably is.  "Can't even hurt some things, and the rest heal right in front of us.  We're outclassed every time.  It's so fucking annoying, you have no idea."
"What he means," Amanda says when Alison starts to look alarmed, "is that mano e mano in the manly art of beating up each other to see who does it best is--well, stupid.  We'll lose every time.  So we gotta approach it differently.  Hunters have been doing this for centuries; we don't survive long if we turn it into a whose cock is bigger contest.  It's theirs, always."
"Seriously?" Dean asks breathlessly, after a few long, red-faced moments of visibly attempting not to choke.  "Good impression, remember?"
Amanda flashes him an unrepentant grin before continuing. "First thing they learn: they can't win in a straight fight.  That's the hardest part for some people to get; it's not always--or even mostly--about killing the enemy. It's about the survival of the people you're protecting, and if possible, surviving yourself.  Dying is the only time you fail, and it's not heroic, not when you have other options; all you did is lower the number of defenders for those you're supposed to protect."
From the corner of his eye, Castiel sees Dean looking at him, one corner of his mouth quirking before he stuffs another forkful of pancakes his mouth.
"So what you and Mark do in the mornings," Alison says, still looking a little worried, "that's not enough to kill what you usually hunt."
Amanda winces, but before she can try to answer, Castiel does it for her. "Amanda can fight me and occasionally bring me to a draw.  Under the right circumstances, she could kill me."  Alison shuts her mouth with an audible click as Teresa leans forward, looking intrigued.  "Possibly Mark could as well, but he's far too intimidated by me to believe he can, so it doesn't matter.  However, Amanda, like Mark, has been a hunter all her life.  There are certain benefits to having a lifetime of experience first."
"And being re-trained by a sadistic ex-angel with a perpetual hangover helps," Amanda says brightly, ignoring Dean's glare to smirk at Castiel and Castiel's polite reminder he doesn't get hangovers (Eldritch Horror doesn't count).  "Not knocking method here: it worked."  Turning her attention to Alison and Teresa, she shakes her head.  "We're outclassed--humans always are--but that just means we learn how to make do with what we have.  I might be able to kill Cas," she gives him a quick, surprised look, "but I wouldn't survive it.  If I was the only line of defense for a group of civilians, all I've done is temporarily delayed their deaths until something else gets them.  There aren't enough hunters to take those kinds of risks, not if we have any other option.   Their job is to keep people alive any way they can.  My job is to teach them all the options I can and how to find new ones so they can do that."
"During my apprenticeship, our instruction followed a similar principle," Teresa offers, getting Alison's startled attention, a trace of habitual fear in her eyes.  "As my mother put it, it's very difficult to do your job well once you're dead."
"Exactly."   Amanda pauses for a drink of coffee.  "One bad habit I don't have to worry about is training them to work together; you already do that.  Let's say hunters generally don't, and a lot of training is teaching them not only to do it, but it's okay not to single-handedly take on everything you see.  Besides," she adds cheerfully, "just because killing them in single combat is off the table doesn't mean you can't hurt 'em, though, so kicking ass is also on the agenda.  Distract the enemy with violence and everything while your team's working on options, and it's a fun way to pass the time while you're waiting."
"What kind of options?" Alison asks curiously as Castiel reaches for Dean's plate, getting up to check on the amount of batter remaining in the bowl before turning on the electric griddle and reaching for the flour.  There's plenty of time to make another batch.
Two hours before dusk, Castiel waits at Alison's for David to arrive from Chitaqua with Melanie's report. Dean, of course, found an excuse to return to Ichabod to take a shift at the daycare after an early lunch and is currently spending a few happy hours being tackled by small children.  
("I don't think Ichabod worried he would do anything sketchy if he wasn't watched," Amanda told him the day before.  "More losing Chitaqua's leader wasn't good public relations, and I warned them he didn't need to know he was being watched to do his vanishing act.  Apparently, they got around that by random releases of two to three year olds into the town square to play.  Screaming kids are better than sirens; five minutes or less, Dean was there for important playing duty, everyone was relieved, and we still look crazy, but now also for having a leader who genuinely likes toddlers."  She looked at him uncertainly.  "I'm kind of on the fence on whether that's any better.  I didn't even know Dean liked kids.")
Alison's second (more enthusiastic) tour after lunch ended in her small office in the administration building, showing him how Ichabod was organized.  As they'd begun in a deserted town, the foundation of their current organization was created by the first to settle here and improved over two years and a half years and over eight hundred additional residents.
It's perhaps the single most fascinating afternoon of his life, as before his eyes is revealed the administration of an entire town and exactly how it should be done.  He blesses his perfect memory; taking notes is very slow, and he'd need a great number of notebooks to do it thoroughly.
Ichabod has a four shift rotation of six hours each for daily tasks, with a more complex system that covers those required weekly, monthly, quarterly, seasonally, and annually, all very neatly organized on fascinatingly complex series of spreadsheets and programs that the settlers--being programmers--wrote themselves or adapted from projects they worked on before.  Alison's introduction to their system the day before was fascinating, and she assured him that if he wished, they could adapt it for use in Chitaqua now that they are utilizing computers.  She mentioned the need for a server as well, which he plans to have Chuck explain to him thoroughly so they can acquire one.  
During the planting and harvesting seasons--in which the entire town took shifts in the fields, both adults and children old enough to help--the work could be grueling, but experience--and learning to use the large number of farming machines--made it far easier than they expected when they first arrived.  While the training they offered was the deciding factor, Alison told him honestly, the offer of manual labor was a very large part of their initial interest; having so many physically fit adults available to help would greatly increase what they could afford to plant and harvest for both trade and surplus for future need and decrease their reliance on the border guards and the military's staple deliveries, the latter of which was often both very basic and sometimes not of the best quality.  The former, of course, were expensive, and need was the most expensive of all.
"Not to mention the competition every quarter when the military hands out supplies," Alison told him as he explored their inventory lists with a tap of the down button and adding another mental note about speaking to Chuck regarding Chitaqua's inexcusably inefficient reliance on paper.  "Got dangerous at the border stations around that time, even if you were armed.  We haven't gone to one in about a year now."
"Joseph is careful to time our visits to the border between those," he said.  "Harlin and Noak told us they have had problems with raiders near those times."
"Mutual defense was a pretty big factor in the trade alliance, and not just from what goes bump in the night," she said wryly. "That's why we run patrol all the way to the highway and why you didn't know we were watching you until we wanted you to."
Castiel grinned at her.  "I was impressed when Joseph told me about your timing."
"We've had a lot of practice," she said, matching his grin.  "We trade-off who does the outside circuit, watch for anything sketchy.  Last raid in Noak at the end of February, about a week before the drop.  They held them easy until the rest of us got there and scared them off."
"Nothing since?"
She shook her head.  "Two drops since, we watched every group that passed; no one even slowed down.  Ichabod's lucky; the only part of the town you can see from any road is the eastern side, and it's pretty much destroyed. From the highway, you can't see us at all."  She sighed.  "It's worse near the internal borders in the zone; they have a quarter of the personnel the outer borders do, and the guards don't give a shit.  If they happen to notice, all you gotta do is pay up to pass." She gave him a searching look. "You never had problems?"
"Chitaqua is difficult to find," he answered vaguely.  "There are also no populated towns near us, and the camp doesn't appear on any maps of Kansas."
Dean's illness occurred during the last quarterly drop; it was almost a week after that he implemented the statewide patrol schedule, at which time those who migrated to the eastern and southern checkpoints for the supplies offered by the military would have returned home.  That doesn't explain why they've never seen any sign of people on the major or minor roads all this time; surely at least some of the raiders don't keep to a quarterly timetable to attack less well-protected towns.  
"Lucky you," Alison told him with a faint trace of irony before they returned to her laptop and its plethora of information, showing him the organizational structure of the town's various functions, one of the most important is daycare and school for the town's children, who make almost thirty percent of the total population.  
Many were orphans, either discovered by Ichabod's patrol or residents during infrequent forays to other towns or brought with new arrivals, and adopted by members of the community.  Tony's daughters and Sreeleela and Sreenivasa's son were among a group of thirty-two orphans found soon after Ichabod was settled, quadrupling the number of children in the town at the time and making child care and school an immediate priority.
"We really like kids," Alison said with a shrug as he scanned the latest town census that included four newborns (three male, one female, all healthy and of average weight and length).
He looked at her curiously.  "Taking them in must have made your first months here more difficult, however."
"More mouths to feed, you mean?"  She sat back in her chair, frowning in the direction of the laptop screen.  "It wasn't like there was a convenient orphanage or Child Protective Services office in the zone; they didn't have anywhere else to go.  Anyway, everyone here was in the same boat as the kids--lost our families, lost our homes--so I guess like called to like."  
From his seat on the front porch, observing the constant ebb and flow of adults and children who pass oblivious to his presence, chattering voices interspersed with bursts of laughter and cheerful shrieks, Castiel thinks about what Alison said about Ichabod's residents; the zoning of Kansas changed their world, in some ways as much as Falling changed his.  That they built new lives isn't a surprise--humans adapt, that's what they do--but knowing that as an angel and experiencing it in all its mundane details is very different.
Millennia of observing humans in their native habitat gave him less than no context for living among them in Chitaqua, the long days (weeks, months) of learning the width of the abyss that exists between theory and practice in a world so alien he couldn't imagine being anything but the most reluctant of visitors.  The bustling population of Ichabod, so different from Chitaqua in more ways than he can count, is new, fascinating, like visiting a foreign country, marking its differences in customs and people from those at home as well as the similarities from a safe (non-interactive) distance.
Taking another drink of coffee, he tentatively explores the novel thought for flaws, searching for those feelings of alienation he took for granted for so long that it never occurred to him might have changed.  The memories remain, of course--the grinding misery and difficulty of learning how to function not just in his body but with a body, surrounded by people he couldn't hope to understand in a world that made no sense to him, the bitterness and anger and frustration that colored everything he did--but the immediacy has dulled.  It was a long time ago, he told Dean by rote, never realizing it was actually true. 
Dean was right and wrong; it's been over two and a half years since he Fell, but those first miserable months were always yesterday, as if time itself were trapped in amber.  That changed, however, that night in Kansas City when he didn't die, the world didn't end, and he met the man who would tell him he should try living life instead of simply marking time until the end.  He thinks perhaps he should tell Dean that night in Kansas City might very well be when he did.
"Hey, Cas!" Castiel lowers his cup at the sight of David coming down the street, face wreathed in a cheerful smile.  From the way his eyes fix on the half-empty coffee cup before he straightens, caffeine would be welcome. "So--"
"Coffee?" he asks, and David nods frantically, looking relieved.  Getting to his feet, he goes to the door.  "I just made a fresh pot.  And more pancakes, if you're hungry."
After David finishes his pancakes--and offering enthusiastic compliments on Castiel's growing prowess in kitchen-related duties--he leans against the counter nursing a cup of coffee with a wistful expression as Castiel finishes skimming Melanie's report for any problems.  Fortunately, the most pressing seems to be James' request for authorization to take a trip to the closest library in hopes of discovering how to manufacture asphalt, followed by Melanie's enthusiastic recommendation to please let him do it so he would shut up about it.  
"Tell her to give James permission, and that I commend her on her patience," he tells David as he sets down the report, who sags in visible gratitude.  "Have him get the latest request list from Chuck as well; Harlin requested several books and Kansas City's library is likely to have them.  Did Joseph select his new team members yet or is he still sulking over Dean's note requesting his assistance in this matter?"
"He said to tell you he'll have names for you by the time you get back but still reserves the right to sulk," David answers.  "He took some volunteers to pick up more from the military's stock this morning, so rehearsals have already started.  Unofficially, he likes Lydia and Brad, and since Brad's one of the few on watch who doesn't make Dean grit his teeth…."
"He and Dean got along very well when he was assigned to stay with Dean when he was recovering from the fever," he agrees, skimming Melanie's report for anything on the watch, who are still supervised by whatever patrol team is available.  Alicia spoke highly of him, and Sarah found him reasonably competent, which for Sarah is an excess of emotion on par to enthusiastic praise.  "I assume the watch is performing adequately?"
"No problems," David assures him, taking the opportunity to refill his cup.  "Ana and Leah will be arriving tomorrow with Laura, and Joseph says you're welcome."
"There's something very unsettling about having a standing order regarding sex in the mess during meals," he says.  "Exhibitionism is to be lauded, and creativity encouraged, but not with silverware and never with meatloaf."
"Don't," David breathes, squeezing his eyes shut.  "Just--"
"I apologize," Castiel says sincerely; the violation of even the most liberal interpretation of sexual aesthetics will haunt him all his life, and David was unfortunate enough to be there as well to bear witness to the horror.  "Is there anything else?"
He's learned--after both Dean and Joseph explained it--that there are three kinds of reports he'll be expected to receive: the official ones neatly written on paper, the verbal ones that expand the scope of a report or explain a situation, and a third kind that are verbal and take the form of casual conversation.  Those can begin at any moment without warning, about anything at all, and he should be prepared to listen.
David, like Alicia, is aware he's still working on the subtle verbal and non-verbal cues associated with them and discards subtlety altogether in the interests of saving them all time and confusion.  
"Off the record, Mel told me to tell you that she understands that you don't execute people for being annoying, but what if she made it look like an accident?  And any tips you have on how to do that, by the way.  No reason."
"Cynthia?"  David finishes his cup and reluctantly sets it in the sink before inclining his head toward the door; nodding, Castiel follows him, matching the deliberately slow, unhurried pace down the porch stairs.  "I was worried about that."
"Mel can handle it," he assures him.  "She's just weirded out.  She and Cyn used to hang out all the time, and now, Cyn's acting like Mel betrayed her or something.  Cyn's intense, and if she doesn't like you--"
"You know it, and it follows you, possibly to your grave, yes, I'm aware.  James was a very poor target for her to choose to target; he's very well-liked by everyone."  He remembers something else.  "How is Kyle adjusting to his new team member?  Is Robert having any problems?"  
There's justice for crimes against good sense by risking your team members lives due to your own lack of imagination, and then there's sadism, and assigning Robert to Kyle might have crossed that line. 
David snickers, sliding his hands in his pockets in visible satisfaction.  "Oh, Rob's great.  Kyle's pretending he's not blessing whatever he worships--himself, mostly--that he didn't get his way about Cyn."  He almost stumbles in surprise.  David nods sympathetically.  "Newsflash: lions lying with lambs and walking on water is a new Olympic sport."
"Perhaps I was wrong about the dearth of miracles in modern times," Castiel remarks.  "I'll attempt to transmute water into wine at the next opportunity; we'll have a party."
"I could mention that rumor has it that his team threatened to drive into a tree to get on the injured list and off patrol if he didn't shut up."
Cas looks at him curiously.  "What else does rumor say?"
"Dean used 'pissing off Kyle' as an inducement to get you to officially agree to his job offer," David says, grinning at his expression.  "No need to confirm: just imagining it puts everyone in a good mood."
"I won't say it's not a perk," he admits, tentatively warmed by David's burst of laughter.  "I assume you wouldn't feel comfortable telling me if that's causing problems?"
Looking startled, David pauses as they reach the jeep, brown eyes searching before he leans back against the hood.  "Cas--"
"I understand if there's discomfort regarding Dean's decision," he interrupts firmly, fixing his gaze on the rearview mirror.  "I certainly don't intend to retaliation, but I hope in time--"
"You're trying to be reassuring," David says blankly.  "Jesus, why?  You've been doing this for a few months."  He bites his lip, worried.  "Are we still supposed to pretend we don't know about it?  I mean, there was an announcement.  Dean gave everyone Joe Beer."
Castiel could list the reasons, but for some reason, he can't quite remember them, not in the face of David's bewilderment and Dean's terrible attempt at being subtle.  "There was an announcement?"
"And beer," David confirms helpfully, pushing off the jeep.  "I better go check in with Dean.  Do you want me to swing by before I leave in case there's anything you want to add?"
This would be an excellent time to tell him about the emergency in Chitaqua he'll tell Dean about, but unfortunately, he can't quite remember what he meant to use.  Lies should be done well or not at all, he reflects. "I should have finished skimming the reports in an hour, so do so just in case.  Eager to get back?"
"Kind of."  David makes a complicated gesture. "Liz and Dan are trading watching Mel and Cyn, and it's hard to be inconspicuous with only two people."
Castiel pauses at that.  "Do you need an hour to come up with an explanation for that which isn't extremely worrying?"
David grimaces.  "It's not serious."
"I changed my mind; I can't wait an hour."
"Right."  David frowns.  "Mel doesn't get worked up easily.  Cyn?  Has become the single exception to the rule."
"Is it more than talk?"
"No, nothing like that," he assures him, shifting his weight uncomfortably.  "Mel's not gonna call Cyn on being a constant annoyance whenever she sees her--which passed plausible coincidence before lunch yesterday--not when she's pro-temming Chitaqua and supposed to be fair--"
"Abuse of power is a time-honored tradition."
"Tried that, didn't work, but her team, we're off-duty until she goes back on patrol.  We can watch out for her."
"Tell Mel she has my permission to do what's necessary, and my definition of necessary is surprisingly broad under the circumstances." He studies David.  "What about Sidney?"
"Sid?  No, he's fine," David answers in surprise.  "Reading automobile repair manuals when he's not on duty or on the training field."
He raises both eyebrows. "Really?"
"He wants back on patrol, and he wants to impress Dean and Jane, not necessarily in that order," David confides in amusement before his expression becomes serious  "Which isn't getting him any points with Cyn.  Look, Mel doesn't have a problem putting her on restriction until you and Dean get back tomorrow."
"Tell Melanie if she feels it's warranted, do so and send someone to inform me immediately so I can convince Dean to remain here another day.  If we're lucky, he won't ask why; otherwise, she'll have to deal with Dean instead of me, and--"  Castiel doesn't know how Dean will react if Cynthia so loses her good sense as to be less ambiguous in her objections, especially considering his offer to Teresa.  The watch, however, still visibly flinches when anyone mentions Dean's interrogation of them after the situation with Jeffrey, and that story is one that doesn't need to grow in the telling.  "At this time, I don't think it would go well for her."
David winces in shared understanding.  "Yeah, we figured."  Opening the door, he looks back at Castiel.  "So I’m guessing when I report to him, everything but--"
"The part where I'm--" He pauses, trying to decide on the terminology.   Probably not a coup.  "What would it be called?"
"Uh, suborning his lieutenants, but for a greater good."
"That."  He raises an eyebrow at David's snicker.  "Corruption is terrifyingly rewarding. I had no idea."
"That fit on a t-shirt?"  Climbing in, he gives Castiel a grin.  "Also, in case I forget: Mel sends her appreciation in the form of a quick harvest that's currently drying in her cabin for you to pick up.  She figured you used up what you had ministering to James' trauma, and you'd need it by the time you got back."
"Bless her," Castiel answers sincerely, stepping back before turning to return to Alison's home to finish his reports in time for David's return.  With any luck, he'll have time to watch Dean at the daycare before he joins Amanda at the training field after she dismisses her class for the day.  Offering encouragement and affirmation without resorting to chemical assistance requires practice, and this would be an ideal time to do just that.
@@@@@@
--Day 126--

In what Castiel assumes is some odd combination of misplaced guilt and very real enthusiasm, Dean throws himself into Castiel's tentative plans for renovating Chitaqua's infrastructure upon their return.  This includes spending the last two mornings taking turns with the rest of the camp digging what Castiel was assured is a very necessary hole for the foundation at the site of the projected mess hall.
"I could help," Castiel offers for the third time that morning when Dean drops onto the thick blanket beside him before collapsing backward with a sigh as he absently rubs his right hand.  
"You did enough already," Dean grunts, turning his head to regard him with a grin, face flushed and streaked with dirt and sweat.  Reaching unexpectedly for Castiel's hand, he flips it over to reveal the healing blisters from extensive shovel use that have joined the gun calluses and gives them a significant look before letting go.  "Dude, this is everyone's mess, and you're not doing all of it for them.  Leadership and life lesson there.  Today, you're supervising."
"Water or coffee?" he asks, pushing himself to his feet. 
"Water," Dean answers, grinning up at him, devastatingly bright.  "Thanks."
"You're welcome," he responds belatedly, turning toward the nearby tables holding bottles of water, coffee in insulated containers, and sandwiches provided by the mess.  This is a new addition to the site as well, appearing yesterday morning, and this morning also offering breakfast to early arrivals, of which there are surprisingly many.  
Picking up a bottle--and refilling his own coffee cup, as Brenda assured cream and sugar were available--he returns to their blanket, sitting down and removing the top before handing it to Dean, who offers another grin as he pushes himself up on one elbow to take it, stretching out his legs distractingly.  
"Not criticizing," Dean says, taking a long drink from the bottle and wiping his face with the stained sleeve of his shirt, "but why didn't you make it an order to show up for important digging duty?  You always have a reason, so let's hear it."
Picking up a clean cloth from the supply he brought--his own efforts were a very valuable lesson in what is needed for people at construction sites--he hands it to Dean, who wets it from the bottle before wiping his face and neck.  Despite the rapidly cooling weather, the lack of wind and rain have kept the days remarkably pleasant, enough so that most of the workers have stripped to thermal shirts and t-shirts to dig.  It's excellent exercise for Dean, he reflects, watching him take another long drink as Alicia bounces into the slowly deepening hole to trade off with Matt and attack the ground with a shovel with cheerful enthusiasm.
Dean taps the bottle against his knee significantly, reminding him that he's waiting for a response.  
"Those that volunteered I assumed correctly were those who--shared my interest in the project and seeing it to completion."
Dean gives him a sideways look.  "Didn't want anyone to rain on your new mess hall parade?"  He shrugs, but it's true.  "It's your first big project, dude.  Don't blame you."  
"When the actual building phase begins, the entire camp will be pressed into regular duty to complete it," Castiel says.  "As much for the actual building as to gain experience for when we no longer have enough residences, though there are still cabins that, while unlivable now, would be acceptable with sufficient repairs."
"And roofs," Dean agrees, taking another drink before grinning as Matt trudges toward them.  "Matt, you still alive?"
Giving him a sour look, Matt drops on the blanket on Dean's other side with a massive sigh of relief.  Alicia is one of the most consistent volunteers for digging duty, and her team--due to interest, loyalty, or Alicia's sheer force of personality--join her every time.  Andy and Matt's determined attempts to match her energy have so far been unsuccessful, but Matt, at least, has yet to declare defeat, and has the blisters on top of blisters that Alicia treats regularly to prove it.
As Matt sits up with a murmured thanks to Andy, who joins him with two bottles of water, Castiel follows his gaze to Alicia, making happy inroads in foundation digging, and revises his estimation of Matt's motivations.  A glance shows Dean watching the same thing with a faint smirk before reaching over to slap Matt on the back.
"Dude, no idea how you keep up with her on patrol."
Matt shakes his head, taking another drink.  "She slows down to let us catch up.  Sometimes."  
Dean nods brightly, hiding a smirk under the lip of his bottle as Andy and Matt start to discuss either the horrors of manual labor or possibly Andy's feelings about Kat, which Castiel's discovered are indeed numerous and comprise two-thirds of his conversation.
"What do supervisory duties include again?" he asks Dean as Jody joins Alicia in the center of the site and begin what looks to be an impromptu digging competition, punctuated with Alicia's almost constant commentary that can encompass quite literally anything. 
"Just watch," Dean responds, grinning as he surveys their good work.  "Worth the price of admission, trust me."
He has to admit, without the distraction of manual labor, the view is very pleasant, and not just due to the extraordinarily attractive portrait people engaged in manual labor offer (hunters are extraordinarily fit, and aren't loathe to show exactly how much), though that's definitely an inducement.  It's rare that the camp has the time or leisure to casually congregate, and it belatedly occurs to him that other than the campwide meetings he or Dean call weekly--which are very different in context--he's never seen so many of the camp in one place at one time.
Dean's question about Chitaqua's past celebrations comes to mind.  They were rare, he remembers that much, and the lowered inhibitions that came with alcohol sometimes caused tensions he couldn't identify (or cared to), but then, he rarely attended longer than it took to find an acceptable sex partner and never sober.  He doesn't think they were ever like this, though; the entire southern perimeter is now spread with blankets for those resting or waiting for an available shovel, small groups gathering and dispersing without any recognizable pattern, and everyone in remarkably high spirits.
Sheila's sudden burst of laughter--due to what, he's not sure--gets Dean's attention and he grins into his next drink before frowning up at Castiel.  "Fine, you won.  How'd you know?"
"A guess," he answers honestly as Mike pulls Sheila to her feet, smiling down at her with something more than simple amusement.  "Joseph--from what I understand--has acted as impromptu counselor as well as chaplain.  He knows Mike very well, and I suspect he didn't think exposure to outsiders would be of benefit yet.  Especially civilians." He frowns.  "I told you that Mike lost his wife and son.  His son was infected at daycare with Croatoan in one of the earliest outbreaks."
"Son of a bitch," Dean murmurs.  "How bad?"
"I don't know for certain," Castiel answers.  "Joseph does, however, and I suspected that would weigh heavily on who he chose to assign to Ichabod after he had the opportunity to observe Mike in Harlin.  I also think he doesn't wish to retard Mike's progress; he's reduced his drinking substantially, is making an effort to maintain casual relationships with others, and his cohabitation with Sheila is proceeding satisfactory."  Dean bites back a smile.  "What?"
"Gotta know, what is a 'successful cohabitation'?"
Before he can answer, Sean passes them on the way to the table, and Dean's gaze immediately fastens on Zack and Mira, trading their shovels to Frederick and Justin before climbing out to collapse on a nearby blanket.  Within seconds--Dean may be counting under his breath--Sean joins them with water, coffee, and sandwiches, and Zack visibly brightens at the attention as Mira watches them in amusement.
Dean leans closer.  "When did Sean get back--"
"At dawn," Castiel murmurs. "His team went to bed immediately after I took their reports this morning, like anyone sane after a four day patrol route."
"You're supposed to wake me up for those," Dean says, frowning up at him.
Every so often, Castiel is once again struck by being in the position of explaining Dean to himself.  "Dean, no one is social in the morning, including you.  The difference between you and everyone else is that you can't help but try--duty, I suppose--and they do sincerely want to respond, but they're tired, and so are you." Dean's frown deepens, with the addition of confusion.  "If you do it, it takes an hour, and I'm trapped in a room with a minimum of five and sometimes as many as thirteen people who desperately want to go to bed--including you--yet are engaged in horrifically stilted attempts at casual conversation while drinking all my coffee until some arbitrary point passes that they can finally excuse themselves while you desperately wish for them all to die.  If I do it, it takes ten minutes, I tell them to leave immediately, and everyone's happy.  Including me and my supply of coffee."
Dean opens his mouth to protest--how, he can't imagine, that's exactly what happens--then subsides.  "Evenings are mine, though, right?"
"Yes, I thought it was self-evident by the fact you always do them."  Dean rolls his eyes.  "Why were you asking about Sean?" 
Taking another drink, he shrugs.  "Zack's looked kind of rough the last few times I saw him.  Where's Nate, by the way?"
"How would I know?" Castiel asks, sipping from his cup.  "What the camp does during their time off-duty doesn't fall under my current responsibilities, and in any case, Amanda is no longer here to share the sordid details of everyone's terrible life decisions against my will."
Dean stares up at him and takes another drink of water.
"Nate's engaged in one of his interminable crisis of sexuality, and James is with him because he's a good leader and wants to help; hint, nothing will, but he'll learn, as so many before him have," he answers, blowing out a breath in sheer annoyance.  "Alicia came by the cabin this morning, but she does so every morning when she's not on patrol to give Andy and Kat privacy so they can have sex and talk about their feelings with each other.  She mentioned seeing Mira and Zack at breakfast without James, and historically, James doesn't miss any opportunity to spend time with Mira.  Combine that with Zack's recent moodiness plus Nate's absence today, and it's fairly obvious."
"Cas," Dean asks seriously, "do you and Alicia have coffee and gossip every morning while I'm sleeping?"
"We talk of many things," he answers evasively.  "Cooking, dream theory, ambush methodology--"
"Dryer elves and camp gossip."  Dean's skepticism regarding dryer elves is ironic, considering where they are and what they do for a living, as it were.  "You told Alicia that Sean was back?"
"It might have come up," he admits.  "Amanda's regular reports served a function that I noticed the lack of when she went to Ichabod.  Alicia's a team leader as well as our current doctor, so she knows a great deal and relates what she thinks of interest, and since it's usually in the morning, yes, we have coffee."
"And you don't tell me?"
He raises his eyebrows innocently.  "You didn't ask."
"I'm asking."
He sighs, put-upon.  "Brian and Brenda are alliteratively involved, much to everyone's immense confusion, but it explains the abrupt increase in quality of the meals at the mess, as Alicia says Brenda told her that Brian's father was a cook that dealt in food no one can pronounce and therefore is expensive."  Dean raises his eyebrows encouragingly.  "She's warily pleased but says its awkward, as Andy and Kat still use her cabin for their rendezvous and sometimes she's trapped with two couples speaking of their feelings, as neither will retreat to their--or her--rooms for sex while she's there."
"God." Dean takes another drink, appalled.  "What else?"
"Liz has terminated her loose association with Zoe's weekly gatherings--"
"Den of Carnal Delights, Mark II," Dean pronounces, waving a hand.  "Something Amanda said. So she's picking up the slack on the love guru and transcendental orgies that's been missing from everyone's lives?  Totally saw that coming."
"Alicia says she's reached the acceptance stage of grief and is moving on," he agrees.  "She's pacing herself, as I advised her, but I'm running low on LSD, which reminds me, I need a day off soon for manufacturing purposes.  It's not particularly complicated, but chemistry isn't to be approached with anything but precision.  Do you need more water?"  Plucking the empty bottle from Dean's frozen hand, he picks up his cup and returns to the table, selecting a sandwich as well as refilling his cup and acquiring a new bottle, before returning to Dean.  "Eat this." 
Dean takes the sandwich, turning it between his hands with a complicated expression.  
"If you don't want me to--"
"Your business," Dean says, taking a bite and chewing thoughtfully.  "Is there a notation for days off for drug making in your spreadsheet?"
"Yes."
"Of course there is."  To Castiel's pleasure, Dean finishes the remainder of the sandwich quickly before following it with more water.  "So Liz is--what, taking up a life of celibacy or what?"
"From what Alicia said, it's a territorial issue.  Mel has twice-weekly gatherings with her team to promote team-bonding, and--what?"
Dean takes a drink of water before answering.  "You don't even need to tell me what that means, and I'm not surprised, fuck my life.  Mel's not the sharing type?"
"Not even a little," he agrees.  "Joseph confirmed that everyone involved is very enthusiastic regarding the current arrangement, and it's been extremely beneficial for Liz personally, as she prefers stability and structure in her personal relationships."  At Dean's interested look, he shrugs.  "Joseph also likes coffee.  It's like a compulsion spell, but not ethically horrible and delicious."
"Our camp counselor in action."  He starts to take a drink from his bottle, then lowers it, looking surprised at something.  "And look who just showed up."  Following his gaze, Castiel sees Kyle taking the shovel from a tired-looking Sheila as she and Mike start toward the tables.  "Give me odds on Kyle joining in from sheer community spirit."
He shakes his head.  "He doesn't have any."  
They both watch Kyle start toward the center of the site where Alicia's working alone--Jody, not gifted with what must be preternatural energy, having taken a break--and doing the least convincing performance of accidentally bumping into someone he's ever witnessed.  
"Wow," Dean observes, taking another drink as Alicia shakes her head with a grin at Kyle's probable apology, the pace of her work noticeably slowing as Kyle joins her digging efforts.  "Wasn't he just like, two weeks ago begging Jane to take him back while stalking her through the entire camp?"
"Jane's otherwise occupied."  Dean must hear something in his voice, swinging his gaze to look at him curiously.  "Sidney, in case you're curious, volunteered to take Sheila's shift in the garage today so she could spend some time with Mike, since his mission schedule with Joseph is irregular at this time while Joseph performs supply-run based interviews to decide who will replace Leah and Ana."
"What does Sid have to do with--"
"He's reading automobile repair manuals and asked me to review him in small arms yesterday," Castiel continues.  "He was sincere in his thanks afterward and we're to do it again the day after tomorrow so as to assure progress, since his performance, while adequate, could be improved.  You may not know this, but Jane is--"
"Don't say it."  Dean closes his eyes, looking pained.  "Jesus."
"Does it bother you because it's Sidney--which is understandable, though he improves a great deal when hostility is absent--or because Dean was involved with Jane?" he asks and earns himself a glare.  "Dean was involved with many women in Chitaqua, so why…." He stops himself; Dean's initial inhibitions regarding involvement with anyone in the camp were the result of both unfamiliarity with them and discomfort with the identity he was assuming.  Time and familiarity, however, have made both irrelevant, and Jane is admittedly the most physically attractive woman in the camp, if one appreciates Rubenesque brunettes with perfect marksmanship, which is everyone sane.
Dean's sudden bark of laughter interrupts the inevitable conclusion of that train of thought.  "I saw Jane in the mess when I went to get us more sugar, and she actually spoke to me, it was weird.  Nice not to have her looking at me like she's counting imaginary bullet holes, but weird.  And you're telling me I got Sid to thank for that?"
"That's--" He's not actually sure.
"Exactly."  Finishing his bottle, he sighs, but shows no desire to return to his labors quite yet.  Exercise is all well and good, Castiel reflects, but doing too much is to be discouraged.  "Think we can get this done before winter remembers Kansas exists?"
"As winter has a very liberal idea of when it should begin, I'm not sure," he answers.  "However, the foundation work, from what I understand, is the part that is most vulnerable to inclement weather, and at this rate should be completed within the week.  Or so Nate explained."
Sitting up, Dean frowns into the middle distance.  "Level with me here--does Nate actually know what he's doing?"
"Strangely enough, he does, but he's the only one.  Once we begin the actual construction--even using prefabricated buildings--the speed of progress will depend on our learning curve, which will doubtless include a great deal of trial and error."
"How long until it's done? Ballpark."
"Three months," he says after a few moments of thought, noting Dean's frown. "Perhaps less, but certainly no more.  In two weeks, I've scheduled an inspection of all occupied cabins to verify they're fully prepared for winter, but--"
"No, that comes first, good call."  Dean's frown deepens.  "So what's after the mess hall?  New armory?"
"Why," he asks, "does this sound like more than idle curiosity?" He would, actually, very much like to expand the armory to accommodate at least a portion of the massive stock of military weapons they've acquired and are now being stored in a growing series of temporary buildings that at this rate may outnumber the number of cabins.  "Do you have a request?"
Matt abruptly passes them on his way to the south corner of the site, almost snatching the shovel from Evan and jumping down into the six inch progress made there, Andy scurrying after him with a worried expression.  Dean's gaze flickers to Jody, who straightens from her conversation with Mira, and even from here, Castiel sees her alarm.
"Told you," Dean says, an unholy smile lighting his face as Andy desperately attempts placation while acting as a physical barrier despite being three inches shorter and at least fifty pounds lighter than Matt.  "Who's your money on?"
"Matt," he answers immediately.  "But that's preference, not actuality.  Kyle fights dirty, and Matt's right is weak."
Dean sighs. "Probably shitty leadership skills not to stop 'em."  The green eyes narrow abruptly as Kyle straightens, looking directly at Matt.  "Or assume they won't stop themselves.  This isn't fucking elementary school, what the hell.  She's not a goddamn bone."
Castiel struggles with temptation--Eve's difficulties with such abruptly far more understandable--before sighing in resignation.  Alicia certainly doesn't deserve to have to deal with this.
"Alicia," he says clearly, and Alicia's head comes up with a startled look, shovel stopping mid-motion.  "Are you certain that Vera would approve of Dean being out in this weather?  He looks flushed."
Dean freezes half-way to his feet, looking at him incredulously, then pointedly at the nearly-sunny day: through the cloud cover, you can even see the outline of the sun in a very impressive off-orange.
Grinning, Alicia jogs toward them, oblivious to Kyle's very satisfactory horror and Matt's hot flush when they see Dean, handing her shovel to Jody before bouncing out.  Biting his lip, Dean stands still as Alicia looks him over, going up on her toes to peer into his eyes with ostentatious care before nodding to herself with a solemn expression, eyes dancing.
"As camp doctor, it is my learned opinion all is well.  Go forth and be productive, for the hole will not dig itself."
"Thanks," Dean says, straight-faced.  "Not dying, good to know."
"Anytime--ooh, coffee, didn't see that earlier." Spying Castiel's empty cup, she scoops it up on her way to the table.  "I'll grab you some, too, be right back."
Dean smiles at Castiel, all teeth.  "Really?"
"People skills," he answers sincerely.  "Go forth and terrify Kyle thoroughly before he tries to skulk away.  You're right, it's very pleasant to simply observe."
"That's what I'm talking about."  Dean crouches to grab his bottle of water, murmuring, "Good job, by the way.  So lunch at the mess, or--"
"We have baked ham--with honey--for sandwiches, and I made potatoes last night, sliced very thin and baked until crisp.  Salted."
Dean stills.  "Potato chips? You made potato chips?"
"Not yet," he answer, frowning.  "Very thin fries, perhaps."
"Home it is." Dean tosses him a grin before getting to his feet.   "Okay, someone got a shovel for me?" he shouts cheerfully, starting back to the quickly growing hole as Alicia drops down beside him, handing him his cup.
Taking it, Castiel freezes, cup half-way to his mouth, as Dean peels away the thermal shirt and tosses it toward the blanket, leaving him in nothing but a very thin, sweat-stained t-shirt before jumping into the hole.  He's almost immediately surrounded by welcoming camp members eager to show him the best places to dig, utterly oblivious to the fact he's now the center of rapt attention from those observing.  
"So," Alicia says suddenly, "he's--recovering really well.  Getting plenty of exercise, obviously."  She takes a long drink from her coffee.  "Little thin, but he--yeah, very healthy.  I approve."
He gives her a sideways look.  "Your commitment to your profession is to be admired."
"Was he always this hot?" she asks plaintively, taking another drink and tilting her head to admire Dean's ability to bend over, revealing a thin strip of pale skin just above the waist of his jeans that vanishes as he straightens.  Oddly enough, it's just as riveting on repetition, and digging provides many opportunities for repetition.  "He couldn't have been, or I'd been much more okay with the cheating thing last year."  She looks at him worriedly.  "Uh, he doesn't hold that entire threat to gut him like a fish against me still, does he? I was upset, I didn't even have a knife!  Nudity and everything, only conductive to wearing sharp objects when everyone agrees, and Dean never did.  No idea why."
He still regrets that he passed out early that night, but as he pulled a muscle laughing after hearing it secondhand, perhaps that was for the best.  Actually witnessing Dean's brave retreat without his pants across the greater part of the camp might have killed him.  
"Of course not," he says, but despite his best efforts, his voice breaks on the last word.  Taking a deep breath, he tries again.  "Let bygones be bygones--did you throw his jeans on the roof?"
"All his clothes," Alicia clarifies, grimacing.  "Mine, too, and Amber's bra, but who sorts out the laundry when engaged in mindless rage?  Kind of defeats the 'mindless' portion of rage, am I right?"
He nods, swallowing hard.
"Tell Amber that," Alicia says with a scowl that melts into guilt.  "I got it all down, but yeah, she had a point about what a night of rain does to underwire."
Castiel just manages to set his coffee cup aside before he starts to laugh.
"Tell Dean I still have his boxers if he wants them back," she adds, sipping from her cup.  "Kind of pink, but that bra was very red, so what can you do?" Reaching over, she calmly retrieves his coffee cup before he lands on it. "I'll get us a refill while you do that."
He nods helplessly, gasping for breath, and thinks this might take a while.
Dean submits to Castiel's insistence in treating his blisters with suspicious amenability after they've eaten, sitting cross-legged on the couch after a quick shower and extending both hands with barely a protest.  
"You ever gonna tell me what set you off?" Dean asks as Castiel examines his right hand for any breaks in the skin.  A short, bitterly fought battle commences, won only by sheer will and a warning twinge from his chest not to do that again anytime soon.
"Later," he promises, and distracts himself with noting a broken blister on the palm of his left hand.  After double checking for potential splinters from the wooden shaft of the shovel, he cleans each palm thoroughly and applies a topical antibiotic and mild analgesic before lightly wrapping them against further damage and to encourage quick healing.  Fortunately, they're in the same general places that Dean's gun calluses are developing, which should speed up the re-acquisition tremendously and will make his introduction to knife fighting much less painful.
Holding up his right hand when Castiel points that out, Dean smiles at the lack of tremor.  "Good practice switching, too."
"I'd expect nothing less," he answers, indicating Dean should relax so he can check the scar tissue on his inner right arm.  Regular application of mild topical lotions recommended by both Vera and Alicia have kept the scar tissue supple and flexible as it heals, and Dean's never been reluctant to stretch the muscles regularly to assure maximum flexibility is achieved.  
"Now that you're successful in consistently identifying the point that you've overworked your right hand and therefore in a very good mood, I'd like you to consider a possible alternative to the wrist brace."
"Something not fucking firetruck red?" Dean says hopefully.  "Hell yes, I'm in."
"A glove."
Dean's eyes narrow.  "No."
"A glove not firetruck red," he explains to Dean's set expression.  "Something to support your wrist and give some protection to your first and second fingers, since you can't at this time easily feel if they're injured without limiting mobility.  Or, if I must be graphic, accidentally cutting off your own fingers with your own knife if it slips without noticing their absence."
"Maybe I'll leave knifework out of my skillsets," Dean counters, flexing his right hand restlessly against his knee.  
"Is it feeling any strain from today?" he asks, remembering Dean was rubbing his hand during his breaks this morning; he should have asked earlier.
"No--actually, yeah, a little," he answers, frowning at it before nodding firmly, and Castiel takes out the bottle of oil from the kit, taking his hand and feeling out the places the muscles always grow too-tight by instinct.  "Okay, about this glove thing--"
"It will be attractive to the eye," he assures Dean, starting at the wrist and working slowly upward.  When he reaches the palm, Dean relaxes, eyes closing involuntarily, and he works patiently for a few long moments, deliberately drawing out each slow stroke before continuing.  "I consulted with Alicia and Joseph, and Ichabod's efforts at the art of tannery have resulted in excellent quality leather.  Heavier grade will be required to support the wrist, but something finer and more flexible will be required for the hand to assure no loss of mobility, and of course we'll test several designs and your approval will decide which you want to use."
Dean attempts an unsuccessful glare from half-closed eyes as Castiel works the tight webbing deliberately.  "Huh."
"Maybe something in black," he offers, biting back a smile at the vague interest Dean isn't at all successful in hiding.  "Protective gear for the hand and arm are common throughout history.  Yours would be modeled on the gauntlet instead of a full glove, though not made of metal of course."
"Gauntlet," Dean repeats in interest before quickly frowning again.  Yes, he thought that might appeal to him.  "Dude, I'm not gonna be the creepy guy walking around with one gloved hand, that's all I'm saying."
"You won't be," he assures him, adding temptingly, "Depending on the design, metal could be added to the knuckles, increasing the damage caused by punching evil in the face."
Dean's expression goes through several contortions, all of which indicate a positive response to metal-studded knuckles punching anything, which obviously would include but would not be limited to evil.  Kyle, perhaps.  "You have something in mind?"
"I do," he agrees as he finishes, wiping his hands clean.  "However, turning that into a practical design isn't among my skillsets.  I'll send a request to Alison if any of the residents have any experience in leatherwork other than the most basic they've already begun to master."  He wonders idly how difficult it would be to learn to do that himself if there's someone with the experience to teach him.  He learned to wrap his own knives and repair their sheaths, but even the most skillful attention--which he won't pretend he is yet capable of giving--can't do more than slow the rate of decay.  He'd like to be able to make them himself, perhaps with modern adjustments to make them easier to carry and conceal as well.  Four simply isn't sufficient; there's absolutely no guarantee a werewolf, a fae, a vampire, and harpy won't join forces and attack them, and there he'll be, all his best weapons used and nothing but firearms to protect him from certain injury, possibly even bruising.
"You got that look on your face again," Dean observes, and he realizes that Dean's smiling at him.  
"What look?"
"Here."  Reaching out, Dean traces a light finger between his eyebrows.  "This line here; always show up when you want something and you're already half-way into a plan on how to get it."  The ghost of warmth lingers even after he withdraws his hand.  "First time I saw it was that day in Kansas City, before your adventures in seeing all things.  Figured back then it meant trouble, and looks like I was right."
"I was thinking about learning the art of leatherwork," Castiel answers challengingly.  "It's a practical and useful skill.  Without access to the military, replacements for belts, gun holsters, and knife sheathes are going to need to be ordered from the border at exorbitant markup--"
"Yeah, not if we can help it," Dean mutters.
"--or we need to either learn to do it ourselves or convince someone in the allied towns who has the skill or is willing to learn it to trade with us."  Thinking of the massive store of military surplus they have that could be of use, he doesn't think that will be a problem.  "I'd far prefer not to enrich the border guard at the expense of the local population if at all possible."
"You really don't like them," Dean says, cocking his head.  "The border guards.  I mean, above and beyond your thing for justice and their thousand percent markup on toothpaste.  This is personal."
Castiel carefully repacks the oil with the other supplies to return them to the bathroom, trying to think how to answer.  "They're not our friends."
"Well, yeah.  They're bloodsuckers and the entire infected zone is a goddamn corpse."
"They want us to believe that they are," he says slowly, "so no matter what they charge us, no matter how ridiculous the price, they can believe it, too.  It's not enough to have a profit margin that Wall Street itself would envy; we have to be grateful so they can feel better about themselves."
"And that," Dean says, "is why you're not ever gonna be our negotiator at the border."
"You think I can't, if sufficiently motivated, put on the appearance of appropriate submission?" he asks, almost offended.  
"No," Dean answers, resting his chin on one hand.  "I think, unlike Joe, you couldn't blow it off afterward."
"Could you?"
"Nope," he says.  "Which is how I know.  Joe, though, entertained himself this last time by convincing Larry we're getting low on money but desperately trying to hide it just to see if he'd take those shitty semi-automatics off our hands in partial payment.  And it worked."
He makes a face, obviously still somewhat surprised by what comprises their liquid assets, but then again, Joseph was rather startled as well when given the full list of accounts, and more recently, due to Castiel's own curiosity, how the stock portfolio of Charles Emerson Winchester III of Boston, Massachusetts (of a very old Boston family) was progressing after leaving JP Morgan Chase to buy a Greek island and raise alpacas.
("You actually told them that was your reason for leaving?" Dean asked incredulously as Joseph looked at him in wonder.  "And they didn't--okay, why Greek island and alpacas? What's the connection?"
"Wealthy people are always buying islands," he explained in bewilderment. "I liked Greece a great deal--at least, it was lovely when I was last there, the city-states were very pleasant, peaceful--"
"Two thousand years ago," Dean interrupted blankly.
"Slightly more than that," he admitted.  "Still, beautiful, and I'd recently watched a very interesting documentary on the future of alpaca breeding, which was guaranteed to replace cattle within a decade and now was the time to get in on the ground floor of this rapidly growing field of animal husbandry for profit.  Wealthy people often are involved in enterprises from the ground floor that involve profit.  I understand that plays some part in how they become wealthy."
Joseph and Dean didn't stop laughing for a very long time, so Castiel ignored them as he paged through his investments, pleased to note that his decision to concentrate his investments domestically instead of overdiversifying in foreign markets worked out very well, considering the current state of foreign markets being utterly unknown and in some instances, possibly non-existent.  And making notes for Joseph's next trip to the border, because as the stock market in the US still seems to exist (how, he's not sure, but then again, capitalism), there's no reason not to make some adjustments.  He wonders if Joseph knows what to do with real estate.)
When he returns from putting the kit away in the bathroom, a sheet of the paper that Nate insists is to be used for construction plans is spread on the coffee table, secured by two glasses, an unusually attractive rock Castiel discovered when verifying that mowing duty was being adequately discharged in those parts of the camp not easily visible from the inhabited portion, and a pocketknife.
"Check it out and tell me what you think," Dean says without looking up.
Sitting back down beside him, Castiel surveys the design; it's oddly familiar.  "It looks like--"
"The cabin," Dean interrupts, then taps a pencil against a large somewhat rectangular structure attached to the right side that is definitely not in existence now.  "So what do you think?"
"It's--a very accurate representation of a rectangle done freehand without use of a ruler?" he hazards, then turns to look at the wall behind them suspiciously.  "That will be accessed through a non-existent eastern door.  It's a room?"
"You need a library," Dean explains, pointing at the innocent utility closet accusingly.  "Dude, come on, even I can tell that's driving you crazy.  Books in boxes and stacked on shelves wherever you can get space, not all lined up and organized by geometry or historical color or whatever."
"It's been that way for almost three years and it didn't bother me at all," he argues, unsettled by the truth of that statement.  It does bother him now, and he has no idea why.  "And the Dewey Decimal system wouldn't be an improvement, considering its emphasis on--never mind.  When did you--"
"Nate drafted it for me yesterday, just a--you know, not final or anything," Dean says, then points to the rectangle.  "Only thing, can't move the bathroom, but not a big deal."
"Why would we move the bathroom to the library?" he asks in bewilderment.
"I was thinking…okay."  Dean sits back on his heels, frowning. "So we make that a bedroom--"
"I thought the point was to build a library."
"--and turn this bedroom into your library, and we share the new one. It's big enough," Dean says quickly, pointing out the straight vertical lines that indicate walls.  "Plenty of room for two arsenals--selling point, you can design 'em--an actual closet for clothes, a couple of beds, whatever."
Castiel wonders if he's missing something.  "I have no objections to the current arrangement.  I like sleeping on the couch."
"You like sleeping any place that's not that goddamn room," Dean answers, staring down at the paper.  "Easy fix: make a new place to sleep, and bonus, you get an actual bed to sleep in, not have to wake up looking at…anyway.  We're doing the living like people thing, phase two: everyone sleeps in a bed.  Whole camp's doing it but you; time to get with the program."
Licking his lips, he stares very hard at the paper as well.  "I suppose.  Your snoring is very soothing--"
"I don't snore," Dean denies, looking up with a tentative smile.  "You were hearing things or something."
Castiel studies the new room thoughtfully.  "It would be pleasant to have an expanded space for weapons."
"So where do you want them?" Dean asks encouragingly, shoving a pencil across the table.  "It's your room, too.  Any ideas?  I want to start when the mess is done."
Picking up the pencil, he nods firmly.  "A few, yes."

--Day 127--

"Lydia and Brad," Joseph announces upon entering the cabin, glaring at Dean--currently blinking at him from the refrigerator--before dropping heavily onto an armchair with a despairing sigh. "You're welcome.  Hi, Cas."
"Good evening, Joseph," he answers, adding the last report on his right to the stack on his left with a sense of triumph.  "We have successfully entered the twentieth century; all historical reports are now in digital format and everyone has been issued jump drives to turn in their future reports.  At least until I better understand how to build a LAN, which involves cables, routers, and electricity, none of which we have in excess--or at all--and therefore it must wait."
He doesn't need to see Joseph and Dean exchanging a look to know they're doing it; they do that a great deal.
"Joe Beer, Joe?" Dean calls from the kitchen, followed the sound of rummaging and the refrigerator door closing.  "So how did--" His voice cuts off abruptly for the unmistakable sound of a very enthusiastic sneeze.
In the ensuing silence, Castiel is aware he and Joseph are both staring worriedly toward the kitchen when Dean appears holding three bottles with an expression that bodes ill for anyone who comments.  
But that's never stopped him before.  "Dean--"
"Dust," Dean says shortly, stalking across the small living room and shoving a beer into Joseph's hand before balancing one precariously on the stack of reports that Castiel just barely catches before it can spill (possibly onto his keyboard) and dropping onto the couch behind him and taking a long drink.  "My nose tickled, that's all.  I'm fine.  Joe, how was the run?"
"Fine," Joseph answers immediately.  "Marked the fridge and freezer for the mess at the warehouse, but we're gonna need to bulldoze the road; couldn't even get the jeep closer than a quarter mile, no way are we getting a truck.  I may need Ana, by the way; the loading zone out back is a mess, and the building's got some structural damage that's gonna make it hard to get the units out."
Dean raises both eyebrows.  "So you want to blow up the building?" 
"Just the back," Joseph answers dismissively, waving his free hand.  "Ana knows her explosives; I'm pretty sure she can get us an opening without bringing down the entire building.  Lydia took pics of everything and Mike recorded our in and out and the back from pretty much every angle; can you take it with you to Ichabod next week, let Ana look it over and see if it's worth taking her for an in-person check?"
Dean nods, and from the corner of his eye, Castiel sees him swipe his nose surreptitiously.  He doesn't think he's imagining it looks rather red, but he tries to believe it anyway.  "So, you're sure about Lydia and Brad?  You got time until your next border run."
Joseph makes a face, slumping in his chair, but he smiles faintly.  "They're good.  Except they can't cook, but can't have everything--"
"There's beef stew on the stove," Castiel says, saving his work and backing it up on a separate drive--Alison recommended this very strongly--before closing the laptop.  "It's compliant with all kosher restrictions, and there's a container for you to take the rest home with you as well as the recipe.  The mess staff made bread this morning, so there's some already cut within the breadbox."
"Bless you," Joseph says, getting to his feet to investigate.  "Two days on MREs, my boots were looking good."
"Why'd you decide against Lee?" Dean asks when Joseph returns, sitting cross from Castiel at now-cleared coffee table. "I thought you liked him."
"I do," Joseph answers, taking an enormous bite and looking gratifyingly pleased with the results.  "Thought about it, figured you might like him better.  Cas, this is incredible."
Dean's grunts were equally enthusiastic. "Thank you."
"I might like him better?" Dean asks, leaning forward and waiting impatiently for Joseph to swallow.  "Why?"
"Just a thought."  Tearing a slice of bread in half, Joseph shrugs.  "I talked to him about his out of camp missions when we were looking for the Colt, got a feel for him.  Figured I'd be losing him pretty soon when you were ready to add another team, so why risk it?"
Castiel reviews what he knows of Lee; thirty-six, African-American, male, adequate shot, extremely attractive, very enjoyable as a sex partner, the latter he assumes Dean has no need of for a professional assessment.  "He's seen more of the infected zone than anyone in the camp."
"He was in Lincoln when Nebraska was zoned," Joseph says.  "Made friends there, too, don't ask me how, he wouldn't say, but I'm pretty sure he did something stupid and heroic, he's the type.  Pretty sure he keeps up with some former contacts in the Dakotas, though you didn't hear it from me, as I don't talk about what people ask me to check on when I go to the border."  He gives Dean a syrupy smile. "My leader said something about privacy, it was weird."
"Funny."  Sitting back, Dean sips from his beer.  "Cas?"
"He's always worked alone."  Lee is also solitary and somewhat taciturn, but if he's formed relationships with contacts outside the camp, then he should be able to adapt.  Everyone should have the opportunity to learn new things. "Jane would be an excellent for his team."
Dean raises an eyebrow.  "Tell me there's a reason for that other than to make Sid feel inadequate, though I'm okay with that as one of 'em."
"Jane's a better shot than Lee--he's proficient, but his depth perception is lacking--and they have compatible personalities.  Brian and Evan as well, I suppose, unless you have any candidates."  He looks back to see Dean smothering what isn't a yawn if the muffled sound is any indication and wonders if he can convince himself he didn't see that.
"Uh, just gonna say this," Joseph says, spoon halted mid-air.  "By compatible, you mean…."
"Jane's not loathe to speak her mind," he answers truthfully.  "Lee's used to working alone, and he'll need to learn to think in terms of his team as well as accept their input.  I can't think of anyone else in this camp who won't be somewhat intimidated by someone who's six three and doesn't like to talk."
Dean blinks slowly. "They'll fight. That's the dynamic we're going for here?"
"Jane doesn't fight with anyone," Joseph states.  "She doesn't get mad, either.  She tells you you're wrong, how you're wrong, and doesn't even gloat when she's right. It's fucking annoying.  Like Sarah, if Sarah wasn't a robot."
"Sarah's simply reserved."  Joseph's characterization isn't entirely inaccurate, however.  He's long suspected Sarah doesn't so much as experience emotions as observe them from a safe distance with a vague sense of interest in their existence.  "Jane isn't volatile, which Lee will appreciate; she's friendly but very calm, and she'll make Lee listen to her without taking it personally if he doesn't."
"She takes nothing personally," Joseph confirms through a mouthful of stew, swallowing hastily.  "It's very 'I understand you have feelings and you should express them but let me explain again how you're wrong really reasonably when you're done expressing them, I don't hold it against you'.  She can do that. And mean it."
Dean smirks.  "Nicest breakup of your life, I'm guessing?"
Joseph sighs, cheeks faintly pink. "My ex-wife and I took six months to finally call it quits with a therapist in on the action; Jane took ten minutes to tell me how much she appreciated our time together, a list of reasons why we weren't compatible, that she understood if we couldn't be friends during the adjustment period but we would be again soon and she looked forward to it, walked me home, and gave me a hug.  Ten minutes, Dean."
"Was she right?"
"All of it," Joseph says glumly, wiping up the remaining stew with his bread and stuffing it in his mouth for pensive chewing before he brightens.  "Of course, there's an exception to every rule, but as long as Lee doesn't cheat on his non-existent SO with her, should be fine."  He smiles at Dean maliciously.  "That, she takes personally."
"Fuck. You."  Finishing his bottle, Dean gets up, collecting Joseph's plate and empty bottle on the way to the kitchen.  "Joe, you want another one?"
"One," Joseph confirms.  "Someone left a note at my cabin, wants to talk about something, and I'm guessing from the handwriting they'll need liquid fortification, so I'm gonna need to pace myself."  Taking the bottle from Dean, he studies it far more intently than brown glass could possibly warrant.  "You know, since Kamal got sent to Ichabod, cabin's been kind of empty--lonely.  I could use a roommate."
Castiel can feel Dean looking at him.  "Sean spoke to me yesterday morning, but I was waiting for you to return for confirmation.  Consider everything approved."
"And?" Dean blows out an annoyed breath, which Castiel tries and fails not to think sounds slightly congested.  "Okay, wanna catch me up?"
"Just several requests for changes in living arrangements that required--a logistical approach," he answers carefully.  "Kat and Andy have requested the next available cabin for themselves, as there aren't any that are even marginally livable among those unoccupied.  Kim, who is currently living alone, as her roommates are in Ichabod, doesn't like the solitude and is willing to take Kat's place with Mel and Sarah, who have already agreed to the change.  It will be accomplished after the new year, I think, if the calendar is correct, as it was recommended to Andy and Kat to wait a month to assure their feelings are--whatever feelings lead to successful cohabitation."
"My recommendation," Joseph admits, taking a drink.  
"And…."
"With Jeremy out of the camp and Andy moving in with Kat, Robert asked Zack if he'd like to move in with him," Castiel says as casually as he can.  "Logistics were complicated, as I said, and due to--the amount of logistics--moving Zack will be accomplished possibly before dawn, as why wait?"
"That sentence didn't even try to make sense."  Dean tips his head back, thinking.  "Short version: Zack's tired of Nate's bullshit, time for a change?"
"Oh, I wish," Joseph mutters, looking at Castiel significantly before sinking back on the floor with a frown.  "Shortest version you didn't hear from me; right now, he's tired of it, and I say, strike while the iron is hot.  Once it's done, it's done, Zack may or may not notice an upgrade in his mental health--hint, he will--and Nate, as it were, will be free of the temptation of mansex since Zack's literally the only person in this camp who will put up with evangelism the next dawn.  I don't care how good Nate is, it can't be worth that."
"It's not."  Dean blinks at him slowly as he takes a sip from his bottle.  "It's very funny, however, but I think you had to be at Nicea to understand why.  I can easily understand why others wouldn't find it as humorous."
Dean nods.  "Right.  They're on the same team.  That gonna be a problem?"
"As teammates, they're fine," Joseph answers. "It's everything else that's a problem.  They're pros, they know how to leave it at home, but it's hard to do when it's the same goddamn home."  Finishing his bottle, he reluctantly heaves himself to his feet.  "Cas, can I pick up the stew tomorrow? My next stop--kind of gonna be busy tonight, but a lot less drinking, so it evens out."
"That's fine.  I'll put it in a container for you."
"Thanks.  Okay, anything else or--"
"Digging," Dean tells him maliciously.  "Fun starts an hour after dawn, so make moving night fast."
Joseph sighs.  "Sounds great.  Night."
Almost as soon as the door closes, Dean makes another not a yawn sound, and Castiel fights down alarm.  
"I'm gonna go take a hot shower," Dean says abruptly, voice thicker than it was earlier.  "Wind today--you know.  Lie down for a little while.  It was a long day."
"Excellent idea," he answers hopefully.  "Someone should be arriving from Ichabod with Amanda's weekly reports, but unless there's something you need to know, I can handle it."
"Awesome."  Dean sniffs moistly and, looking alarm, retreats to the bedroom, and Castiel decides to pretend this isn't happening for as long as humanly possible.

--Day 128--

"Okay, there's something we need to talk about," Vera said, pointing him toward her bed when he arrived at her cabin that evening.  Surveying the stripped bed, Castiel found himself in the novel position of hoping that wasn't an invitation and sat down carefully, relieved to see her take a chair, turning it to face him and sitting down.  "It's about Dean."
Alison's warning--sent via Leah when she delivered reports before wisely fleeing Chitaqua less than an hour after her arrival--that ten children in the toddler room had come down with severe colds gave Castiel exactly ten hours before Dean stalked out of his room two hours after dawn wearing two layers of flannel and a blanket over a long-sleeve t-shirt, sweatpants, and a pair unmatched socks with a hole in one heel, face pale, nose red, carrying a handful of toilet paper, and punctuating each dragging step with a chorus of sneezes, none of which are in tune.
In that time, Castiel: called an emergency meeting of the available team leaders and various heads of camp functions (Dean went to sleep almost immediately after his shower, a terrible sign of things to come); explained they couldn't resign, be assigned to Ichabod temporarily, or run away or he would hunt them down and bring them back dead or alive (some inquired if they could request 'dead'; the answer was 'no'); sent James on an emergency trip to every abandoned town up to and including Kansas City in a search for tissue (infused with lotion, per Sarah's recommendation); ordered Brenda to turn numerous chickens into chicken broth and a great deal of soup (noodles are apparently recommended); helped Alicia frantically check their medication inventory for anything to assist with colds; and once completed, added all of these things to their pantry, refrigerator, and/or bathroom and resigned himself to dealing with this without killing either Dean or himself.
(Optional: possibly the camp as well, who voted that he who lives with and has sex with Dean must care for Dean in sickness and in health, which he thought only applied to the institute of marriage but apparently can also be subject to the vagaries of direct democracy.  He hates democracy.  The alternative, however, was a promise (threat?) that he would have to hunt all of them down in the wilds of Kansas, and he taught them how to hide very well.  He hates them, too.)
Castiel finishes his (fourth) cup of coffee, forces himself to his feet, and tries not to look worried when he sees the hectic flush spreading over Dean's forehead and cheeks.
"There is tissue, soup, fruit juice, water, tea, coffee, extra blankets, and various analgesics and decongestants on the kitchen table," he says in one breath, but Dean doesn't vary his course.  With determination--and two sneezes--he shoves Castiel over, drops on the couch with another sneeze and inefficient use of tissue paper, and looks up at him with huge, red-rimmed eyes, the very picture of resignation in the face of tragic suffering.  Followed by a sniffle.
Castiel thinks: I know better than this.
"Would you like me to get them for you?" he inexplicably hears himself say, and Dean nods, wiping his nose with a tiny, pathetic cough before looking up at him again.  "Give me a minute."
"Actually," Vera said, leaning forward intently, "this is about you."
Castiel blinked at her. "About me?  Why?"
Here's what Castiel learns over the course of the first seven hours:
Dean recovering from a serious illness is desperately eager to do all he can on his own, and is regularly cranky and not a little hostile (or perhaps a lot).
Dean with a cold refuses to so much as move from his spot on the couch unless it's a miserable, solitary trek to the bathroom, and his emotional range comprises of 'sniffling misery', 'resigned suffering (with coughing)' and 'pathetic hope' (sometimes, he sighs as well, setting off a round of carefully suppressed coughing and assuring Castiel does anything he says to avoid its continuance).
Dean is always too hot or too cold, there are too many blankets or not enough, some are too rough and some too soft, the coffee is too strong but the tea is too weak, toast shouldn't have crusts, the wet washcloth for his headache drips, is too dry, isn't in the right place, isn't helping, he's bored with this book, the print's too small in that one, he hates this author, aren't there any others, but he doesn't want to be a bother (a.  bother.), but it's okay, he'll be fine.  Followed by sniffles.
It's strange; even knowing he's being ruthlessly manipulated for Dean's sadistic amusement, it doesn't actually change anything.  He finds a space heater to station by the couch and turns it on and off when desired, gets more blankets/different blankets/blankets from other cabins because they don't deserve them, makes a new pot of coffee with less coffee grains and leaves the teabag in the cup for a full three minutes, de-crusts all the toast, has four washcloths on standby for switching between at a moment's notice, and tells James to take two jeeps to denude the nearest public library of its entire fiction section in under five hours or he'll pray for demon possession before Castiel is done with him.
(Then immediately apologizes and tells him he's doing an excellent job in his studies on how roads are made.  It says a great deal that James simply nods with an expression of pity and promises to keep him updated on the pothole situation.  For a horrifying moment, he's in great danger of being patted on the back.  It's very lowering.)
Dean takes a long nap after the abrupt spike in his temperature lowers again with the application of ibuprofen, and Castiel loses some amount of time that afternoon watching him sleep.
"First rule.  Don't panic."
Castiel said, "What?"
"You heard me," Vera answered, staring into his eyes as if trying to force the meaning of the words into his brain by sheer will.  "Don't. Panic."
Standing at the stove that evening, Castiel prepares grilled cheese sandwiches for dinner (cheese delivered from the mess because he assumed dairy would be unwelcome due to congestion and was very wrong indeed) (the bread has no crust) while heating up the chicken noodle soup that Brenda swore several times would make Dean feel better.
Putting the grilled cheese (cut in precise triangular quarters, not squares) onto a plate, he carefully measures out the soup for the correct proportion of broth to chicken to vegetables into a bowl, adds both to the tray with a glass of (not too cold) water, a napkin and silverware, before returning to the living room where he catches Dean reading Firestarter by Stephen King, a power that Castiel would very likely sell his soul right now to acquire.
"Dinner's ready," he says, and watches as Dean composes himself into pathetic gratitude--how does he do that?--and blows his nose, following it up with a messy wipe before discarding the tissue in the general location of the wastebasket that was acquired specifically for the purposes of tissue-handling.  
For a long moment, Castiel contemplates the existential horror of being attracted to someone with a swollen red nose that's begun to peel and excretes immense quantities of mucus, but then Dean looks up from a blue cotton-wool blend blanket-formed cowl, green eyes shimmering with excess water, and he immediately loses his train of thought.  Uneasy, he sets the tray on the coffee table, unable to ignore the warmth that suffuses him when Dean smiles.
"Thanks," Dean tells him thickly before carefully shifting his blanket cocoon enough to reach for a quarter of crustless grilled cheese (evenly browned on both sides) and take a bite, chewing with the determination of someone using the last of their energy to acquire nutrition to combat mortal disease (a cold qualifies, apparently).  Then he frowns, looking up at him again.  "You gonna have anything?"
Castiel thinks: a long, cold shower and dimebag on the porch after you finally go to bed, yes.  "I'm not hungry."
"You haven't eaten all day."  Dean's frown intensifies, and reaching for a new tissue, he sneezes twice before continuing. "Get something to eat.  I'll wait."
Experience suggests compliance is his only sane course of action, so he resigns himself, getting a bowl of soup and returns, seating himself grimly beside Dean at his sniffling head-jerk, and applies himself to eating.
And stops, startled.  Lowering his spoon, he suspiciously examines the rich golden broth, in which is scattered a plethora of creamy-white pasta and generous chunks of off-white meat.
"What?" Dean asks, pausing in his own half-hearted efforts toward sufficient nutrition consumption.  "Don't like it?"
"This is chicken," he answers, dividing one of the pieces of meat with the side of his spoon and tasting it warily before looking at Dean.  "This is what it's supposed to taste like?"
Dean blinks wetly before taking a bite, nose wrinkling. "Not that I can taste anything right now, but yeah, I guess.  You've had it before."
"No, I haven't." He takes another bite, concentrating on the rich, salt-laden burst of flavor.  "This is nothing like that square substance swimming in colored water--"
"Salt," Dean interrupts grimly.  "I told you, the military was palming you off with sodium free or fat free shit or something all this time, which is what normal people call flavor.  People who can taste, that is," he adds darkly, taking another grim bite.
Ignoring him, Castiel eats with somewhat less reluctance than usual, thinking of the last few meals he prepared and trying to mark out the difference.  Salt definitely helps: he wonders now if Dean was right about hamburgers combined with marijuana use.
After they've both finished and he's taken the dishes back to the kitchen, he pauses at the doorway.  Unobserved, Dean's movements are slower, more clumsy, and he reaches up to rub his temples irritably before his head drops onto the back of the couch as if he can't find the energy to hold it up any longer before he begins to cough again. The faint flush from activity doesn't seem to be fading; on the contrary, it's starting to spread.
"I'm not going to--"
"Are you listening to me?  Say it with me, Cas."
"Don't panic," he ground out, resenting Vera's encouraging smile with all his being.  "I'll also continue to breathe in and out while you're away; my understanding is regular respiration is somewhat necessary for living.  I don't panic."
"Funny story," Vera said, sitting back in satisfaction.  "Anyone else, they'd agree.  But you're talking to one of the only two people on earth who know you do and exactly what it looks like in action.  Ask me who the other one is."
He shut his mouth on the obvious reply; he doesn't panic.
"He can read you like a book, Cas," Vera said.  "Don't believe me?  You'll find out exactly what I mean the first time he gets the sniffles.  Now say it with me..."
"I. Don't. Panic."
Going to the pantry, he retrieves ibuprofen and a decongestant, then adds the hydrocodone-laced cough syrup Alicia promised him would help Dean to rest, before refilling the glass and returning to the living room.  Pushing the coffee table back, he sits down, setting water and medication aside, and fights the urge to check his temperature again; he's very flushed.
"I have your medication," he starts and freezes at how familiar those words are on his tongue.  Lifting his head, Dean opens his eyes, and the expression on his face tells him he recognizes it as well.  "If you would--"
"So how long until ice baths become a feature, anyway?" Dean demands roughly.
"It shouldn't be a feature. This is merely a cold--"
"Most colds start with a high fever?"  He snorts, which unfortunately sets off a fit of coughing.  "Cas, you think I don't know what it feels like?  What is it now?"
He hesitates, but finally reaches out, fingers skimming the hot, dry skin of Dean's forehead.  "One hundred point one three eight and climbing, yes, but I have ibuprofen--"
"Like that helped last time?"
"It did this afternoon," he tells Dean. "Vera didn't think your immune system was permanently compromised, as I'm sure she told you more than once, but I did warn you that your body is adapting and that may take time."
"So I'll pick up the first cold I see?" Dean asks, rolling his eyes and pausing for an exceedingly bitter sneeze.  "Wish I had that kind of luck with women."
"No, you picked up the same cold that every adult and adolescent who worked in the toddler room also acquired."  Dean's never not been lucky with women, up to and including angels who choose to Fall by their own choice, are born into humanity with their own (female) body, and upon reaching adulthood have only to meet him before they're being willingly seduced in the back of the Impala.  Not that he particularly cares.  "And several parents, including Tony."
"Is he okay?" Dean asks worriedly, straightening.  "I mean, he's sixty--"
"Walter and Dennis both live with him and his daughters, and I'm sure are seeing to his care," he interrupts. "When Leah brings the next report, she'll have an update on everyone's status, but Leah gave me Alison's message verbatim and she didn't seem worried."
Dean searches his face for a moment before slumping into the cushions again.  
"It is only a cold," he repeats. "Though it's somewhat complicated by the residual infection from the brownie bite, yes, which….."  Before Dean does more than stiffen, he quickly adds, "This isn't a relapse, simply the predictable result of your immune system being stressed."
"That's all."  Dean stares at him.  "So if I get sick--every time I get sick, it'll keep coming back? Vera said she that might happen, and this is proof, right? A goddamn cold and now I'm gonna be exorcising people or talking about sheep…."
"You actually were talking to them," he corrects Dean, but understandably, he doesn't appreciate the distinction.  "Dean, you're in no danger of--"
"You don't know that!" he snaps, setting off another round of coughing.  Castiel retrieves the tissue box and mutely extends it, waiting for it to taper off.  "So don't fuck with me!"
"I do know that, just like I knew when I saw you emerge from your room that day you were already in danger, just as I knew the moment you began to respond to treatment," he answers, keeping his voice far calmer than he feels.  "Do you see a blood circle in this room?  I'm not going through that again, and this time, I have volunteers for the sacrifice.  All I have to do is tell them they have to care for you during your illness, and they'll happily--"
"Cas."
"--sacrifice themselves.  If you think I didn't read everything Vera recorded about the progress of that fever or I don't remember helping her to treat it or that I didn't ask her what I should watch for before she left, one of us is hallucinating right now and I hope it's me!"
Dean stares at his upraised knees, mouth tight, and Castiel closes his eyes; surely there is bread somewhere in this camp that needs the crusts removed. He's finished with all that they have in the cabin.
"If it's not serious, why do you look...."  Dean's mouth works briefly. "Look like it is."
Somewhere south of Atlanta, Georgia, Castiel knows that Vera just started to laugh and--this being his life, of course--has doubtless intuited from the very ether exactly why.
He hates her, too.
"What is the word for when you associate something with a fairly traumatic event in your life and it has nothing to do with food but instead your best friend almost dying before your eyes from a brownie bite?"
Dean frowns, wiping his nose.  "PTSD?"
"Vera told me that the most important thing I could do for you is not to--overreact if you became ill," he says, fixing his gaze on one corner of the blanket.  "She told me that no matter what she told you and what you knew for yourself, you wouldn't believe it unless I did.  So my behavior now should match what it was when you were still very ill; otherwise, any doubts you might have would be confirmed." He frowns at the blanket. "I told her I had no idea why she'd think I'd need such ridiculously obvious advice."
Dean makes a face, followed almost immediately by another fit of coughing.  Annoyed with himself, Castiel reaches for the cough syrup, pouring out a measured amount into the tiny measuring cup and handing it to Dean when it finally abates, followed by the ibuprofen and decongestant.
Handing back the empty glass, Dean is still flushed and irritable, but somewhat less hostile. "It's just a cold."
"It's just a cold," he confirms.  "Aggravated by the residual traces of the infection from the brownie bite, which isn't anything to be worried about but will probably magnify your symptoms, and don't panic.  Me, not you."
Dean hesitates before nodding grudgingly.  "I was okay until you actually cut the crust off of the toast."
"I thought I was perfectly fine until you started to run a temperature after lunch," he offers.  "However, before that, I was removing the crusts because it was very funny to see your expression each time I did it."
Dean's head snaps up, outraged, before he abruptly bursts into laughter, inevitably leading to another fit of coughing.  One out-thrust hand stops Castiel from moving, and eventually, it tapers off as Dean gropes for more tissues, wiping his nose and snickering hoarsely between two rapid sneezes.  Straightening, he relaxes back into the couch--flushed, red (and now somewhat damp) nose, watery green eyes, and still ridiculously attractive.  It's surreal; how does he do that? 
"People in Ichabod think you're charming."
"Huh?"  Dean blows his nose messily before dropping the tissue into the wastebasket--a first, his aim is improving--and acquiring a fresh one.  "They do?"
"Yes, Alison told me about what happened at the council meeting, as well as at those introductory dinners she hosted for you," he explains.  "She said she was immune, of course--"
"She's not," Dean interrupts smugly.  Castiel doesn't agree, but only because Alison begged him not to ever tell Dean it worked, as Teresa mocked her for it enough.
"--but she did ask me if that was why I was attracted to you," he continues.  "I had to profess myself utterly ignorant of what she was talking about, as I'd never seen any evidence that you knew the meaning of the word."
Dean's amusement slowly changes into something he doesn't recognize, but there's no mistaking the dangerous light filling the green eyes.  "That right?" he says huskily.  Wiping his nose, he starts to add something to that and frowns, forehead creasing, and Castiel can see him just stop himself from reaching up: that would be the headache, yes. 
"Lie down," he says, inexplicably relieved as he reaches for the empty glass.  "It may be only a cold, but I'm assured that while not life-threatening and of short duration, they're utterly miserable while they last."
"They are," Dean agrees far too easily, reaching for one of the pillows Castiel brought from the bed and tucking it against the arm of the couch before curling up with a sigh.  A soft thump catches Castiel's attention, and reaching down, he picks up the book Dean was reading. "You're not going to watch me sleep, are you?"
"Yes, I am.  Especially if your grilled cheese has to be in cut into triangles and without crust.  I think I'm owed this."
Dean begins to grin, and one foot abruptly snakes out from the blankets to kick the couch cushion in a way that seem to be significant. "Read to me."
"What?"
Another kick, harder this time.  "My head hurts and I'm bored.  Sit down on the couch like a normal person and read to me.  You can watch me sleep, I can pretend you're just reading until I actually am, and everyone wins."
He almost argues the point but realizes no, he can't go cabin to cabin to acquire more bread to cut, and even if he could, he doesn't want Dean out of his line of sight, and the camp is distressingly well-organized at this moment (as well as notable in their absence).  Short of continuing research on the feasibility of a building a small nuclear reactor in one of the less desirable cabins--Joseph was appalled, Alicia enthusiastic--he's not actually sure he has anything else to do, and his concentration at this moment is not compatible with primitive nuclear physics.
If only they'd invented cold fusion already, he thinks wistfully, and at Dean's third--and much more determined--kick, he sighs and picks up the book.
"Not that," Dean says.  "Hippo porn.  I know you have more done, come on."
Castiel thinks of where he stopped translating.  "I do, but--"
"Get it," Dean demands snottily (quite literally, even), and with another sigh, he retreats to the utility closet under Dean's eagle eye, finding where he'd hidden the evidence--behind the inexplicably depleted supply of Eldritch Horror--and comes back to see Dean's helpfully left the end of the couch ready for him.  Almost as soon as he's seated, Dean promptly decides he must stretch out, long legs abruptly draped across his lap followed by a heartfelt sigh of satisfaction.
Stupidly, Castiel looks at him and gets in return a mischievous grin.  "Well?  Anytime you're ready."
Castiel thinks: I do know better than this and I don't care.  
Carefully setting the original text on the arm of the sofa--burning it would probably contaminate the fire--and his pens on the coffee table in easy reach, he removes the green one as he skims through the notebook, warily relieved to realize there's probably still a great deal of text before…that part.
"Where did we stop?" he asks as the blanket is flung downward, just short of Dean's feet, and he absently reaches down to straighten it over them and tuck in the ends securely.
"South of Memphis, on the road to Thebes, just spent time staring at hippo ass in the swamp while having a lot of feelings." 
Flipping to the correct page, Castiel nods.  "'Cleft in twain, ripened and honey-glazed--'"
"--'beneath the sun in splendor' that's it," Dean finishes for him, rubbing his nose and abruptly tugging a pillow under his head to look at Castiel through watery eyes.  "Hey, what happened to the boyfriend with the blister lips or whatever--"
"'A carbuncle gleaming like a blister swollen with new blood', and I'm honestly not sure.  He vanished between the Inundation that entered the Cubits of Plenty--as his very presence also controls the Nile's Inundations, not Pharaoh, who's only a god on earth, after all--" He stops himself with an effort. "That and Pallas Athena's weeping lamentations as the water level rose around her supine form, for in her despair she'll drown herself, though that will take time, since it takes some days for the Nile to rise, but it seems she's willing to wait."  Flipping back, he verifies the potential lover's absence since before that obscenely inaccurate rendition of Athena's--there's literally nothing not wrong with it. Entirely new things were created wholesale just so he could be wrong about them.
Going back, he proceeds to the next stanza and comes to an abrupt stop.
….yes, that part.
"Cas?"  There's an impression of activity on the other side of the couch, but he needs a moment.  "You gonna start?"
It seems as if he'll have to.  "'Kneeling within the swirl of mud as the swamp ascended the banks in crawling tendrils of azure and verdant greens'--for the water of the Nile is like tentacles--'he cried out to the heavens, 'Lo, for your name I speak and know, Messenger, come to my bidding with these gifts I seek to give'."  The silence from the other side of the couch almost echoes with ominous portents, but perhaps Dean's fever will abruptly spike and a pleasant sheep-based hallucination will commence.  Any moment now.  "The grammar is--"
"He summoned," Dean breathes in something suspiciously like joy, "an angel?"
Castiel grits his teeth.  "Technically--"
"Of the Lord?"
"Technically speaking, no," Castiel says in pedantic misery.  "The pantheons of Egypt and Greece had no conceptualization for 'angel'. In point of fact, the word itself is only a very loose translation of--"
"'That which you call a rose'," Dean quotes maliciously.  "Or an angel: Shakespeare knew his shit.  Was it you?"
Castiel jerks his gaze to Dean in horror.
"Tell me it was you," Dean says gloatingly.  "Tell me he summoned you by name and you're immortalized in shitty teenage Greek except in Egyptian pre-MySpace epic poetry being turned down by hippofucker.  Is this why you made up shitty excuses all this time about still translating it?"
"The translation is somewhat questionable--"
"Qafsiel Kaziel, Cassiel, Messenger, Castiel--"
"'Anina, Namina, Anael, Ana-el'."  He watches in interest as Dean stills, green eyes wide, and abruptly becomes somewhat reconciled to the fact he can't smite eastern Athens the night of this poet's misbegotten birth.  "I assume you recognize the name."
Dean's mouth closes with an audible snap.
"'And so they appeared,'" he reads more enthusiastically, "'draped in silvered moonlight like the most diaphanous of garments, laid bare to only the most private of eyes, rich in flesh and rounded in form'--"
Dean promptly begins to cough.
"--'lush, ripe, honeyed fruit falling into his willing hand'--he did have a problem with repetition, it seems," he observes.  "Maybe he made a copy paste error--"
"Cas," Dean says in horror.  "That's your sister he's--talking about being ripe and honeyed!"
"Incest is a mortal sin, not a divine one," he responds, turning the page.  "Among the gods, a relative within the first degree was generally preferred as a mate; in no other way could they consolidate and expand their power.  I have no conceptualization of the taboo as such, and if I did, I've never known her in that sense."  He looks at Dean in understanding.  "That would make one of us."
Dean swallows. "Uh--"
"'Their steps fall like raindrops as they stretch--', he's an idiot, he meant 'paces'." He pauses to make another correction as Dean indulges in a rather drawn-out fit of coughing and raises his voice to compensate.  "'Their steps fall like raindrops as they pace the length of the swamp on feet of light'--not a completely inaccurate description of our true form, though technically speaking, we don't have feet--'and displayed themselves before him in all their glory, red hair surmounting a face of carved ebony and gold'--acceptable, though the fact he's not being burned alive for the presumption of looking on their true form...."
"You're telling me Ana's true form had red hair?" Dean demands, ending his fit of coughing with remarkable rapidity.  "Come the fuck on!"
"'And there's nothing to do but kneel before such in abject worship.'" Castiel glances at Dean's red face--carbuncle-like, even.  "Red is often used as an indicator of lust, anger, sexual heat without procreative function: it's a well-known fact.  You're welcome to check my translations, if you wish."
"I'm going to," Dean promises, wiping his nose venomously.  "Soon as I find a demotic Egyptian to English dictionary."
"I look forward to our future conversations in comparative linguistics," Castiel tells him sincerely before continuing.  "'A divine hand fell upon his head, gentle in their touch, warm in their offered benediction, diaphanous robes like mist parting to reveal them swollen, ripe'--he does like the word 'ripe', doesn't he?--'turgid and dewed with divine seed, sweet in taste when offered for adoration, slick in honey-sticky ropes'--ropes, that certainly is an image I could live without--"
"You--"
"'--thick and heavy, accepting its deserved worship and sending him beyond mortal endurance into both agony and ecstasy indistinguishable.  Speared by the heavens before him--"
"Okay, wait, wait," Dean interrupts.  "How much of this is there?"
"Eighteen stanzas."
"You're going to read eighteen stanzas of your sister banging hippofucker?" Dean demands, then looks uncertain.  "That's…what they're doing, right?  The spearing thing, that's…what?"
"I'm honestly not sure," he mutters, frowning at the page before returning his attention to Dean. "As I said, i don't--oh, I apologize.  Human sexual prudery--"
"Fuck you, I'm not being--that!  No prudery here!"
"--is alien to me.  Would you be uncomfortable listening to me read eighteen stanzas of your ex-girlfriend in their true form--"
"She wasn't my girlfriend!  It was one time!" Dean bursts out, and earns himself a well-deserved genuine fit of coughing.  
"--having what may or may not be anatomically impossible divine and somewhat ambiguous sex in overwrought prose with hippofucker on the banks of the Nile during Inundation?"  Dean's face turns an interesting shade of purple, and he sits back, satisfied.  "It's your decision, of course. I'll wait.
Dean doesn't speak for several long moments after he's finished.  Closing the notebook, he stacks it with the text on the coffee table and puts away his pen before sitting back, wondering if he should admit....
"Okay, I give up," Dean says finally, blowing his nose.  "What the hell just happened?"
"I checked this four times," he replies.  "I'm not certain whether my former divinity should be offended by the blasphemy--it being fictional--or his lack of literacy when engaged in fictional blasphemy, but it would help to know if blasphemy actually occurred.  Fictionally speaking, that is.  I was hoping I simply wasn't human enough to understand it."  It was a wonderful theory, and he regrets its loss very, very much.
"Yeah, no, that's just hippofucker being--I don't even know."  Dean sneezes in resignation.  "Okay, let's get it over with."
He takes a deep breath.  "Are you sure--"
"Look, we gotta figure this out, not like we're sleeping either way after that--whatever it was.  Better to know for sure."  Blowing his nose again, Dean motions to the notebook.  "I'm pretty sure he was probably talking about Ana's holy cock with turgid seed--"
"Divine seed."  At Dean's incredulous look, he shrugs helplessly.  "Perfect memory, and I regret it more than you can imagine right now. You have no idea how much."
"Sorry," Dean replies with almost painful sincerity.  "Anyway, holy cock, we got that much so far, right?  Tell me I'm right, lie if you have to."
"I don't think he knows what a cock looks like."  He reads the stanza again, but it doesn't help.  "Even his own."
"Which might explain where he thought it was--was it moving or is it just me?"  Dean shudders before straightening with a determined look.  "Heaven's spearing something, and we're gonna find out what that is or die trying."
"No one dies from reading bad poetry, Dean."
"I said," Dean states, "that we're gonna try.  Now 'speared by the heavens': start there."

--Day 130--

Alicia's expression is unrepentant as she saunters up to the porch stairs an hour and a half after dawn, but as she's carrying a basket containing another bottle of cough syrup, bread, and a gratifyingly large container of soup, he decides to be gracious.  "How's it going?"
"Very well, thank you," he says pleasantly.  "I'm designing a refresher training course for the camp.  I think I'll call it 'survival of the fittest'."
Climbing the steps, she sets down the basket near the post and drops beside him with a smirk.  "I killed the goblin king with my bare hands and a pocket knife.  I fear nothing and no one."
"All goblins call themselves kings.  They do that.  And it was an four and a quarter inch dagger of thrice-forged cold iron.  A sixteenth century mystic and blacksmith just rolled over in his grave hearing you call it called a pocket knife."
"Oh, almost forgot." Pulling the basket closer, she groping inside for a moment before taking out a handful of papers that she presents him with a hopeful look.  "Dryer elf trap, Mark III.  Tell me what you think."
Taking them, he smooths out the creases to examine the elf trap, sigils neatly delineated at the seven corners, and below it the plan of attack in a series of brief sketches.  A dotted line shows the progress of the bait toward the trap, in this case, a sock that fulfills all the requirements of temptation: clean, very white, without holes or patches, obviously manufactured for boots, and part of a matching pair that's been worn at least once and is the only pair of its kind the owner possesses.  Nate will just have to deal with the potential loss.
The second page, however…. "You added a potential gnome variation?"
"Yes!" she exclaims, leaning over to look at it fondly.  "Small, easy to miss, used to hiding in plain sight via invisibility, and annoying as shit: potential dryer gnome.  Not like a civilian--or my mom--would know the difference on sight, am I right?"
"Or brownie," he says, joining her in a horrified shudder.  "Luckily, neither brownies nor Fae can pass the wards, so that limits the possibilities somewhat."
"Brownies are locked out?" Alicia asks in surprise.  "Since when?"
"Since they attacked Dean." He fights down a wince, glancing at Alicia warily.  "They--I'm not sure.  However, they're now unable to pass the wards."  
That much, at least, is true.
Brownies have existed on earth for so long and bred so consistently in their corporeal form here that they generally seem to straddle the vague line between the supernatural and terrestrial, and it's guesswork at best to decide on which side they might fall.  English and Scottish folklore might hold them to be useful in household chores, but Castiel has yet to meet one in the Americas that is other than annoying, entitled, or vaguely feral (an unforeseen danger of importing your mystical helpers when invading foreign continents, he supposes), and often all three.  
The progress of technology has eliminated many of their traditional duties, which admittedly may be a factor in their recent development, but instead of adapting to the industrial revolution and embracing the possibilities (surely the vacuum would make their jobs immensely less tedious?), they chose the path of maximum annoyance.  When not engaged in either sabotage or outright destruction of machinery, attempting to do what it was doing but far, far worse, and then waiting for gifts to show appreciation for their inferior labor, they gather in colonies to attack unsuspecting humans for daring to enjoy running water, electricity, cable television, and automobiles.
Unfortunately, brownies have never qualified as a threat--natural law being not at all surprisingly as oblivious to the modern era as the brownies--and keeping them out of the camp used to be something of an effort.  Killing them is anathema due to their technical status as friendly and helpful toward humanity (he doesn't snort, but it's a very close thing), so infestations tend to require a miserable blunt-force approach to the problem: knock them unconscious, gather them in boxes with very strong lids (preferably the kind you can nail shut) and take them away from the camp and hope they wouldn't return (they do anyway).  
(Anathema or not, killing them wouldn't be off the table if he'd found a way to do it.  He hasn't.)
In general, the wards reacting to a threat is the equivalent of background noise, barely discernible unless he happens to be in physical contact with them unless it's serious or dangerous enough that his attention is required.  However, the very recent rejection of a brownie trying to slip through was neither background nor something he could have missed even if he'd been trying, as the wards awakened him from a sound sleep at three in the morning to bear witness.  He would be lying to himself if he said he didn't sense its vicious satisfaction as the brownie ran shrieking its way into the night; it matched his own.
As the wards' presence faded into the back of his mind again, he remembered Dean telling him how only days after his arrival, when he first touched the wards, they wanted his attention.

"It's your Grace in there, right? I could--it felt like you. The first time I touched it."

Dean would be familiar with his Grace, yes, that much makes sense if anything about this is supposed to.  That they wanted his notice doesn't, not when they never showed interest in Dean Winchester before.  If Dean was accurate about what he sensed--and this being Dean, there's little to no chance he wasn't--the wards knew exactly who he was--and who he wasn't--well before he took Dean to see the wards that night.  More unsettling, however, is the sense that they knew him, the unique person, therefore making 'impossible' a loose guideline instead of a realistic assessment of reality.  Much like this entire ridiculous Apocalypse.
"No more brownies fucking around with the pipes," Alicia is saying in profound satisfaction, snapping him back to the present with a jolt.  "Okay, so the trap: yes, no, maybe?"
"I think it will work very well," he says, focusing on the sketch; it's very good.  "Can I keep this copy?  I'd like to check a few references before we begin construction."
"That's why I brought it," she answers cheerfully.  "You need anything else while I'm here?"
"I can't think of anything at the moment.  Joseph usually takes requests after reporting to me in the morning and evening regarding the camp's activities."
"That would be a lot of digging." Alicia sighs before resting her elbow on one upraised knee.  "How's our fearless leader, anyway?"
"Resting comfortably." He glances back at the door, behind which Dean is sleeping the sleep of the drugged on hydrocodone-laced cough syrup beneath a mound of blankets with a space heater in convenient proximity.  To his lack of surprise, Dean found numerous excuses to avoid sleeping in the bedroom, and Castiel agreed with all of them, even the ones that made no sense, like the paint might be lead-based and kill him in his delicate condition.  It's not as if a sleeping bag on the rug isn't very comfortable, but listening to Dean breathe at night, he thinks that they may need to acquire a heavier rug for winter to conserve warmth and avoid taxing Dean's immune system further.  Maybe one for each room: it bears investigation, and James does seem to have a gift for finding things.  "Somewhat irritable, but that is to be expected."
"Cranky as shit," Alicia translates.  "What was Dean doing at the daycare, anyway?  Wouldn't have called that one."
"Building a fortified castle," he answers, remembering the sight of Dean and two small, very determined children sitting around four low child-sized tables pushed into a rough square on which was placed a passable castle surrounded by a truly inspiring defensive wall in a variety of primary colors.  "He's very fond of children."
Alicia's eyebrows jump.  "You're kidding."
"Not at all.  He's very popular among the caregivers who wish to take an extended lunch."  Tony's younger daughter eventually wandered over from the group entranced by a program starring a large violet dinosaur to observe proceedings.  Evaluating the entire construction with a serious expression, she shook her pig-tailed head before pointing at an arbitrary point (blue?) on the wall and babbling what was unmistakably a command that Dean inexplicably seemed to understand, changing the blue Lego for a yellow one.
"Do you like kids?" she asks curiously.
"I'm not horrified by their existence." Alicia wrinkles her nose, apparently unsatisfied.  "I've had too little interaction with the immature version of your species to form an opinion."  
She waits, adding an obnoxiously tapping foot in unneeded emphasis.
"They're a great deal like the mature version," he continues, remembering Dean dealing with three children competing for his attention. "Loud, opinionated, stubborn, certain they are always right, somewhat irrational when crossed, and extraordinarily unhappy when they don't have your undivided attention."
"You like them," Alicia decides.
"Why would you assume that?"
"A lot like Dean," she says triumphantly.  "Especially the attention part."
He raises an eyebrow just as from inside comes the unmistakable sound of Dean's voice raised in what is obviously displeasure on awakening and realizing anew he has a cold.  Ignoring Alicia's laughter, he gets to his feet and opens the door to see Dean sitting up with an unhappy expression and wiping his nose with a handful of tissue.  
"How are you feeling?" he asks as Alicia thankfully muffles herself against her knees behind him.  To be sure, however, he carefully shuts the door behind him.
"Fine, just dying," Dean answers thickly, glaring at him before getting to his feet.  "You go have fun outside, I'm gonna take a shower.  Hope I don't fall over or anything and drown."
"Try to avoid it."  Castiel smiles at him winningly. "Do call if you need anything, I'll be right outside."
The only response is a glare as Dean stalks the length of the living room before disappearing into the bedroom.  Closing the door carefully behind him, he turns back to Alicia, currently in danger of asphyxiation.  
"Enjoying yourself?" he asks as he sits back down.
She lifts her head, face red, but heroically swallows back her mirth to say, "I am, thanks.  So you sure you don't need anything?"
Castiel opens his mouth to reply, then reconsiders.  "The four new generators that James and Zack brought for the new mess--are they already running?"
"Hooked up and checking them now," she answers.  "Why?"
"I need one of them.  And a few other things." This is either a very good idea or a terrible one.  "You tell me if you can get them here by tonight."
Alicia nods, intrigued.  "Let's hear them."
He tells her.
"Holy shit," Alicia breathes.  "That's genius."
He rather thought so himself.  "So can you--"
"Not a problem," she interrupts, glancing at the sun speculatively.  "I'll get James's team to help.  Two hours after dusk at the latest.  You know how you're gonna distract Dean?"
He nods thoughtfully.  "I think I do, but I'll need your help."
"I'm in," she answers, leaning forward.  "What do I do?"
"Why," Dean asks grimly, unmoving beneath a pile of blankets that has grown exponentially since his cold began, "do I need to go to the infirmary?"
Finishing with the dishes from dinner as casually as possible--and it's an effort not to speed up the process--Castiel drains the sink and then dries his hands before leaning against the kitchen doorway.
"Because Vera--"
"Fuck Vera," Dean interrupts, puffy eyes narrowing.  "She's not here, and if it's just a cold, not like I need Alicia to look me over now and confirm it."
"--requested, and you agreed, that any illness or injury would be documented thoroughly for her records."
"You can do that."
"Alicia is our camp doctor, and it's both her responsibility and her privilege to fulfill the duties inherent in that position," he responds.  "Not only that--"
"What if she wants me to remove my shirt?" Dean asks, pausing to blow his nose as obnoxiously as possible. "So she can do the thing with the stethoscope?  See all those missing scars and tattoos?  Think of that?"
"I told her she wasn't allowed to undress you," he answers, crosses his arms, and waits.
Dean doesn't disappoint him.  "You told her what?"
"I told her that as I was still not entirely conversant with human customs when it comes to committed relationships, I felt it would be best to avoid even the appearance of infidelity," he answers, watching as the red of Dean's nose is lost beneath the general flush of hot color that extends down into the collar of his shirt, though how far he's sadly unable to determine from here and while Dean's wearing three shirts.  "Nudity with someone other than your committed partner is to be discouraged outside situations that require it, and in my view, this situation doesn't."
"You didn't say that," Dean breathes, staring at him in growing horror. "Tell me you didn't tell her--"
"Jealousy is a destructive emotion that does not contribute to a stable and lasting relationship or successful cohabitation," he explains.  "While I told her that I couldn't be sure that would be my reaction--"
"Jealousy?  Because the camp doctor sees me without my shirt?"
"--it might be, and why should we take the risk?"
"You told her you'd be jealous and consider it cheating if she saw me without my shirt?"
"'For thou shalt worship no other god: for the Lord, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God.''  He shrugs. "As my Father is, so are his sons--and daughters--and so follows our reaction to perceived competition.   I cannot deny my nature, and I'm rather offended you'd want me to.  I also understand you should accept people as who they truly are, and I expected better of you."
Dean opens and closes his mouth helplessly. 
"Once I explained it to her, she was very understanding," he continues.  "After all, the consequences--"
"What consequences?" Dean shuts his eyes.  "You don’t mean--"
"Ritual combat, of course," he agrees.  "In response to blatant violation of my rights."
"Your rights?" Dean asks incredulously.
"And your honor," he adds conscientiously.  "Not that I would hold you responsible, of course.  Please don't let that concern you."
"This isn't actually happening," Dean mutters.  "Hallucinating, right--"
"As the one challenged, she would have choice of weapon--"
"Where the fuck are those goddam sheep?"
"--which would of course be knives."
"Knives," Dean echoes flatly.
"She's very good with them, as I might have mentioned before," he tells Dean. "But I'll win, of course."
Dean nods jerkily.  "Of course."
"My victory and her death would be confirmation of my claim to you, but traditionally, public sex is recommended as well so it can be witnessed--"
"Oh Jesus," Dean groans, opening his eyes to glare at Castiel before dropping back onto the couch and covering his face.  "I hate you."
"Did I mention using her blood to…"
"Fuck you," drifts from the couch, but he can see the faint quivering of his shoulders before Dean rolls over to bury his face against the cushions. Crossing to the couch, he lifts Dean's legs out the way to sit down, rearranging them in his lap as he waits for Dean's muffled laughter, interspersed with coughing, to subside.  
When Dean rolls back over, he grabs for the tissue, blowing his nose thoroughly and managing a short-lived glare before grinning at him.  "How much more was coming?"
"Serving my every whim to show your gratitude that I defended your honor," he admits, waiting for Dean's next bought of laughter to taper off.  "Sexual favors would be prominent among your duties, of course."
"Of course," Dean agrees mockingly.  Grabbing a pillow from where it fell on the floor, he tucks it under his head, wiping his eyes impatiently. "How much of that was from your fucked up imagination anyway?"
"Oddly, very little," he answers, folding his arms over Dean's legs.  "When fighting a challenger for one's chattel--"
"Chattel?"
"I know you can't possibly be surprised by how the Host classified human lovers?" Dean makes a face.  "Sex would be a human invention that we added into proceedings, however.  Also, substitute 'enemy blood' for 'Grace' to be both proof of possession and warning to other angels or gods."
Dean raises an eyebrow.  "Handprint by any chance?"
"Nothing so vulgar," he answers. "A form of their public name, usually a translation of their true name from Enochian.  Ritual binding, but--"
"Goes only one way."
He nods, not surprised Dean would recognize the reason for that and wondering why he didn't redirect this conversation in any other direction other than this one.  "Their true name, willingly given and willingly accepted, would be binding to them as well.  No angel would give a human equal power over them."
"So real reason I'm going to the infirmary?" Dean asks abruptly, startling him, but when he looks, Dean's expression reflects only skepticism.  "You want me out of here for some reason, right?"
"Yes."  Something--disappointment? Worry?  Unhappiness?--flickers across Dean's face before it vanishes.  "Nothing  you'd disapprove of or be interested in.   I sent James to procure three new rugs for winter to better insulate the cabin, and I'm using my power for our personal benefit and letting his team assist me in placing them in here and the bedroom."
Dean's face brightens.  "And you think I'll bitch at them?"
"I know you will," he answers easily, smirking at Dean's unconvincing scowl.  "I thought you'd prefer peace and quiet and not have to change rooms while we move furniture, and Alicia agreed to entertain you as well as update your medical records. And you won't have to remove any clothing, I promise."
"And you couldn't just say that?"
"I could have," he agrees thoughtfully.  "But this way was much more entertaining.  Your expression...."
"Something," Dean states flatly, fighting a grin with indifferent success, "is wrong with you."
"And you like me anyway," he says. "So how long until you're ready to leave?"
Castiel arrives at the infirmary to find Dean and Alicia sharing the bed and pouring over medical records with matching expressions of horrified fascination, and all hope they're anyone's but his die an immediate death.  Shutting the door, he almost sighs as Alicia's head comes up without even the pretense of guilt, while Dean continues to read for a few more moments, shaking his head sadly before closing the folder.  
"I hope I'm not interrupting," he says as Dean quickly rearranges his expression to one of sad resignation at Castiel's far too well-documented medical history.  "They're done.  Are you ready to come home?"
"We were just getting to the good part," Dean complains as Alicia takes the folder and slides off the bed, not hiding her smirk as she places it back in the distressingly large case that usually lives in the bedroom closet in the cabin.  "All done?"
"I think you'll approve of James' selections."  Dean takes the time to sneeze and blow his nose thoroughly before easing to the floor with a faint, nearly indiscernible stumble.  As casually as he can, Castiel crosses to the bed as Dean gets another tissue from the box on the pillow behind him, scowling unhappily.  "Congestion affects the inner ear and therefore balance, especially after a period of being stationary."
"I know that," Dean grumbles. "Can we go already?"
"I'll walk with you," Alicia volunteers immediately, locking the case and hefting the strap over her shoulder before gesturing them toward the door. "After you."
As they emerge outside, Castiel watches carefully as Dean descends the stairs and doesn't bother trying to be subtle about it.  
"You wanna carry me?" Dean asks challengingly before sneezing again, which interferes with his glare.
"Actually--"
"Hell no."  He twists around to include Alicia in his warning glare and immediately stumbles, requiring Castiel to steady him to the sound of Alicia's delighted laughter.  "Shut up?"
"Yes, Dean," she answers obediently, coming up on Dean's other side just as the cabin comes into view.  "If it helps, you sound a lot better, shouldn't be more than a couple more days."
Dean obviously doesn't want it to help but can't quite hide the faint relief behind the tissue, though he does try.  
When they reach the steps of the cabin, Castiel glances back at Alicia as meaningfully as he can.
"I'll get the door," she says, darting up the porch steps and opening the door before looking back solemnly.  "I'll just go inside and put this up.  As one does with things one borrows from others, it's just polite."
"Yeah, okay," Dean tells her back as they ascend the steps.  After she disappears inside, he glances at Castiel.  "She's acting weird."
"She's always like that."  Reaching for the door, he politely holds it open for Dean, who looks at him suspiciously before stalking by him and coming to a dead stop only two steps past the threshold, giving Castiel enough room to enter and shut the door before asking, "So what do you think of the rug?"
Dean doesn't answer, and he follows his gaze to the television now hanging on the wall and the shelving unit beneath holding a bluray player and a selection of movies, liberated from somewhere Castiel felt no interest in asking about but obviously no longer had any use for them.
"You're not looking at the rug," he points out after a long moment, noting James is smiling hard enough to burst, and Zack, Matt,  Jody, and Mira are crowded at the kitchen door watching eagerly.  "I liked the rectangle motif, but if you prefer--"
"You…." Dean jerks his gaze from the TV to look at him, a slow, wondering smile lighting up his face, and Castiel forgets what they were talking about.  "You got me a TV?"
He nods a little vaguely.  "While I’m afraid cable is not currently available in this area, we were able to procure a selection of movies--"
"A TV."
"A list of movies," Alicia volunteers from the bedroom door, almost bouncing.  "And God help us if we couldn't find at least a few of them.  Which perish the thought: we found all of them."
Dean doesn't look away from Castiel, cocking his head.  "A list?"
"I know what you like," he answers automatically and almost winces, not sure if that was a mistake considering the source, but Dean's smile widens, impossible as that should be.  "John McClane fortunately is a popular choice for many, so…" He trails off, not sure what he's saying anymore.  "If you wish to sit down to make your choice--"
"Maybe we should take a vote," Dean interrupts, finally looking away and bestowing a very different smile at everyone waiting.  "Movie night, right?  Don't tell me you did all this shit and think I'm throwing you out without getting to enjoy it?"  He laughs at the eager expressions of everyone, then frowns, looking toward the kitchen in surprise. "Dude, is that--"
"Popcorn," Matt confirms cheerfully.  "And a lot of it.  Almost forgot how to do that without a microwave."
"Dude," Dean says, shaking his head before he closes a hand over Castiel's wrist and tugs toward the couch, pulling him down beside him.  "Okay, so Die Hard okay?"  At the general agreement, he grins happily, settling back on the couch, but the hand around Castiel's wrist remains as he reaches for one of the folded blankets beside the couch.  "Let's get this started.  Grab pillows and extra blankets from the bed if you need 'em and get comfortable."
As everyone's attention is turned elsewhere, Dean finally lets go to spread the blanket over them both, and Castiel fights the urge to touch the lingering warmth from Dean's touch.
"Seriously, you got me a TV?" Dean asks softly, mouth quirking in amusement.  "Was I that bad this time around?"
"Of course not.  I should have thought of it before." Absently, he smooths the wool blend over his knees as Matt deposits two large bowls of popcorn and several bottles of Joe Beer and a glass of water on the coffee table before returning to the kitchen.  "The daycare in Ichabod has televisions to play movies for the children, though I assumed you wouldn't enjoy the program involving a giant purple dinosaur as much as they seemed to."
"You went to the daycare?" Dean asks in surprise, reaching for another blanket.  "When?"
"My tour with Alison required visiting all the official buildings."  Dean raises an eyebrow.  "I was curious."
"About kids?"
"Yes," he answers firmly.  "While I've never been particularly interested in procreation, per se, I do enjoy the method by which its generally achieved."
Dean bites his lip.  "Right."
"It's possibly the best part of the human design. Not to mention a superlative example of humanity's limitless creativity."
"Jesus, you're weird," Dean says wonderingly, shaking his head.  "So you like John McClane?"
"Oh yes," he agrees, as the television flickers to life.  "I like when things explode."
"I'll get the lights," Alicia volunteers, picking up two remotes and depositing them before Dean before flipping the lights off, and everyone settles themselves while the FBI warning appears on the screen.
Matt returns from the kitchen as Alicia drops onto the couch beside Castiel and scooting over enough for Matt to join her while Jody curls up in the armchair Zack is using as a backrest.  To his lack of surprise, James and Mira have settled together to share a blanket and pillow to the left of the television.  
She's been an excellent influence; like all of James's team, she wasn't a member of patrol before, and she's willing to offer James her advice and ask for clarification regarding his decisions, which has encouraged Zack and Nate to do the same.   Her confidence has bolstered James' as well as the team's, and not surprisingly, that compatibility is as personally attractive to James as it is professionally, and Mira doesn't seem unwilling consider the possibility, if her response to James' eager attentions to her comfort--spreading the blanket more thoroughly for her and unnecessarily fluffing the pillow between them before offering himself as a backrest--is any indication.
Glancing at Dean, he sees him watching them as well, mouth quirked in amusement.  "They look cozy," he murmurs, breath warm against Castiel's ear. "Anything to worry about if that goes anywhere?"
"Mira's involvement with Kenneth was terminated several months ago and they've remained on good terms," he answers.  "James, as far as I'm aware, has never engaged in anything requiring termination."
Dean looks at him.  "Anything?"
"Literally," he agrees as Mira leans back against the pillow, head resting against James's shoulder and thus guaranteeing he won't have any attention to spare for the movie.  "He's always been rather reserved."
"Huh.  Hey, where's Andy?" Dean murmurs as he acquires one of the bowls of popcorn and two bottles, grinning at Castiel's quick glance at Alicia.  "Right, Sarah's team's back.  Remind me to tell Alicia's she's welcome to our floor tonight if she needs it."
He nods as Dean braces his feet on the coffee table, rearranging the blankets before falling into a comfortable slump against his side.  
"Alicia," Dean says, reaching for another blanket and tossing it neatly over her head when she turns around.  "Blanket?"
"Thanks," she says, sounding muffled before tugging it off and spreading it ostentatiously over herself and Matt before getting a bowl of popcorn.  "Also, you're welcome."
Dean smirks at her before relaxing back, settling the popcorn in his lap and then glancing up at Castiel. "Dude, feet up and relax already."
"Yes," he answers, obeying mechanically and thereby achieving contact with Dean's body from shoulder to knee beneath the two blankets that Dean rearranges meticulously before settling back again.  "Comfortable?"  He hopes so; unless Lucifer himself appears at the door and is on the point of entering, he has no intention of moving for any reason whatsoever.
Dean turns his head to smile at him from only inches away.  "Did I say thank you?"
"It was implicit," he answers vaguely.
"Not the same thing," Dean murmurs.  "Thanks, Cas."
He nods, swallowing hard before saying, "You're welcome."
@@@@@@
--Day 134--

"So what's it like, then?" Alison persists.
What it's like: so many answers, so few of them comprehensible without a working knowledge of all the planes of Creation from its inception.  "Television."
Alison frowns, resting her elbows on the table. "Television?"
"Premium cable package or satellite: every channel that exists, did exist, or ever will," he answers, warming to the analogy.  "All of them at the same time, even the ones devoted to infomercials, but the programs started at the beginning of time, will continue into perpetuity, and you see all of the episodes at the same moment in time as well."
"Ten seasons of X-Files in the blink of an eye."
"It won't make the mythology any more comprehensible." Alison sighs in disappointment.  "But you can pinpoint the precise moment Chris Carter realized he didn't know it either."
Alison cocks her head.  "Watch a lot of TV after you came to earth?"
"Infinite knowledge, and yes, I did.  It was educational in human customs."
"You're kidding."  Alison fumbles her thankfully empty cup when he doesn't deny it, getting to her feet. "Want more while I figure out what the hell to say to that?"
"Please."  Handing her his cup, he frowns as she limps determinedly to the coffee pot set by the oven, but doesn't make the mistake of trying to stop her or offering to do it himself.  "I understand that it's exaggerated--and if you think it's overly so, I'd like to introduce you to Greece's entire creative output as refutation--but it's a fairly accurate roadmap for humanity in the general if not the specifics."
"I'm still dealing with you learning human via TV," Alison says, setting his cup in front of him before seating herself again.  "That explains a lot."
He hides his smile behind the rim of his cup.
"So what did you get out of it?  Roadmap-wise, I mean.  We march ever onward to our destruction?"
"You certainly seem to believe so; the sheer glut of nuclear holocaust media alone is breathtaking in morbid speculation of not just the infinite ways to die, but the horrific mutants that will result, rendered in loving detail--you get that from my Father," he adds thoughtfully as Alison sips her coffee, eyes wide.  "His work on the original genome that resulted in humans was a great deal like that, but at no time were tentacles going to be a serious addition, He just thought it was amusing as concept."
"Tentacles?"
"You create your own destruction, yes, but almost immediately create a way out of it," he continues, returning to the original subject.  "It's like watching endless dress rehearsals for what you might do and how to get out of it, on the off-chance you end up actually doing it.  Combining cosmic horror with practicality isn't a universal trait by any means, much less turning it into a visual instruction manual: you are to be commended for that particular innovation."
"Tentacles?" she repeats blankly.
"Oh, that.  Humans don't have racial memory, per se, but among the species you evolved from, some did.  It's always been something of a thought exercise, wondering if somehow, they retained some faint inklings of that design possibility that you inherited, which would explain your otherwise inexplicable interest in hentai."  He takes another drink. "Not that it's inexplicable now; I see the attraction of all those tentacles.  Very versatile: the possibilities are endless.  I think up new ones every day."
Alison spits out a mouthful of coffee on the table, and he helpfully retrieves a dishcloth from under the sink and cleans up while she remembers how to breathe correctly.  Disposing of it in the sink, he returns to Alison's glare. "What?"
Her glare is very expressive; it says many things.
"A rule of thumb when it comes to enlightenment; be very sure you ask the right question, and be aware the answer will always be in essay form and continually in flux."
Alison's eyes narrow speculatively.  "Depends on what channel you're on right now?"
He grins at her.  "The invention of television is truly a miracle of our time, and not only for its value for not-entirely-inaccurate analogies."  Setting his cup down, he considers her for a long moment.  "It won't get easier the more that you learn about what you can do; if anything, it becomes harder, because the decisions you make will be greater in number and the consequences more far-reaching.  You are the possessor of an ability that quite literally will punish you for being a good person, and the better your ethics, the more ways it will have to do it.  It's like classical conditioning for the masochistically inclined.  Are you?  Masochistically inclined, I mean?"
"No."
"You have my sympathy; if possible, try to develop a taste for it."
Alison sighs heavily, taking another drink.  "I actually said to myself--I did say this--'what could be worse than threatening to ritually execute me in the street?  That's gotta be our low point.'"
"I feel we've both grown as people since then," Castiel says sincerely.  "That was almost two weeks ago.  At least twelve generations of fruit-flies have passed: it's time to move on."
"I said, 'Ask him for a little more information, can't be worse than that, right?''' Alison takes another drink.  "Two minutes, you prove me wrong, and also tell me that wanting to fuck squid is in our genes."
"Or octopus."  He thinks for a moment.  "And it's been thirty minutes since you asked me to join you for coffee."
"Not gonna lie, the tentacle thing, that--never mind."  She fixes him with a grim look.  "Any good news?  I'll take anything."
"Yes, but I need you to answer my next question honestly."
"I already know I'm going to regret this," she says in resignation, sitting back in her chair.  "Hit me."
"Do you want to save the world?"
"Yes," she answers without hesitation, looking startled; most people do when they realize that they mean it.  "I do, yeah."
"Then I suggest you pick up your sword and learn how to use it.  This time, saving the world will be a group effort, and we need all the help we can get."
Alison sets down her cup.  "That was actually pretty profound."
"I have my moments.  I like to space them out," he explains.  "Keep it fresh.  Sometimes, I mix it up, throw in a few dead languages, it's--"
"Funny."
"Te pedicabo ut homo pulcher ovis vilis, the shepherd says to his lover," he intones.  "I say, go forth and be fruitful, and please, think of the sheep.  Or rather, don't, not like that.  They can't possibly be enjoying it."
"Was that even real Latin?" she asks suspiciously.
"Did it sound impressive?"  Her expression tells him it did.  "Then it doesn't matter."
"Context says it involves fucking sheep," she says, still suspicious.  "Do I even want to know?"
"Ask yourself, when you see someone--an infinite being, perhaps--wandering among your flock, why would you immediately assume that they want to fuck your sheep?" It's been on his mind since that conversation with Joseph.  "At the time, I thought it was some inexplicable human peculiarity of thought; now, it's equally inexplicable but also deeply horrifying, which isn't an improvement."
"Wool is so scratchy," Alison says, resting her head on one hand.  "The chafing--I'm just guessing here, not like I got the equipment to verify, but still, I have an imagination, I own sweaters.  That's gotta hurt after a while."
"There are multiple facets of horrifying," he agrees.  "Don't be afraid."
"Not afraid--baffled, maybe--"
"Of yourself."  Alison stills, looking at him with wide, startled eyes.  "What you are, what you'll become.  What are you afraid of?  Be specific."
"Becoming a monster."
"Good, I thought this would be difficult; don't become one.  Anything else?"
She takes a deep breath.  "What if--what if I become one anyway?"
"That's even simpler; stop being one." Alison raises her eyebrows.  "Of all the things you can't control and have no power to change--the past, the actions of others, the need for regular excretory activities--you always forget that you yourself aren't among that number; you can change yourself, anytime you wish.  It's a gift, one to be envied."
"Yeah," Alison says dryly.  "A thousand people, you said, birth to death."
"That number might be a little low, all things considered."
"No shit; I've counted ten sitting across from me so far this morning and we're only--what, thirty minutes in?"
Startled, he just avoids knocking over his cup with the judicious use of speed; it's useful like that.
"Know thyself, Castiel of Chitaqua," she says, sipping from her cup with nearly visible satisfaction.  "I see what you mean about the profound thing; the look on your face right now...."
"How do I look?"
She grins.  "Funny as hell."  
He sighs, finishing his coffee before pushing the cup to the side. "Are you ready for your exercises now?  It's not as if linear time isn't endless--no, wait...."
"Yeah, I think I am, thanks.  Promise, I'll be gentle this time."  She extends a hand across the table, grin widening.  "Don't be afraid."
He takes her hand without hesitation, squeezing the cold fingers reassuringly.  "I'm not."
Castiel considers his second visit to Ichabod an immense improvement over the first, but then again, the bar was set very, very low.  
That's unfair; Alison's welcome when they arrived yesterday was genuine, and as if to make up for the original party, she hosted a smaller dinner last night that was surprisingly--and he means this--pleasant.  Tony, Claudia and her son Derek, Haruhi, Eyong and Njoya, as well as the other residents of the building were the only others in attendance other than him, Dean, and Amanda.  An evening passed in interesting conversation with receptive people: they happened on TV, yes, but that he began to believe might actually be fiction.
Part of thinks, he admits, is that Haruhi, Eyong, and Njoya, like Sudha, Rabin, and Neeraja, may be natives to earth and humanity, but not so much to this continent.  There was something very reassuring in receiving confirmation that some things are not only not universal, but utterly baffling to other humans.  
("Americans", Njoya told him reassuringly when Dean, Alison, and Tony burst into raucous laughter after Tony's anecdote involving some incomprehensible mixture of football, the FCC, the national flag, and Superbowl commercials.  "Just nod and smile politely."
"I knew every word Tony used in that story," Castiel said in bewilderment.  "Yet nothing he said made sense.  Where does the 'pigskin' come in?  For that matter, what happened to the pig?"
"As I said, nod and smile politely, but never--and I do mean never--ask for an explanation.  American football," she said grimly, "doesn't translate, but they truly think it does, and they will never, ever stop trying."
"Nod and smile politely?"
She nods and smiles politely. "Just like this.")
Njoya also suggested searching a community college for instructional texts on leatherwork specifically designed for beginners, as well as other very useful vocational skills, at which time Dean, Tony, and Alison decided to join the conversation.  It was a very enjoyable evening.
As they leave Main Street for the training field after a very surrealistically productive session in Alison's kitchen, he glances across the cab of the jeep to see her frowning vaguely out the windshield.  "How are you feeling?"
"I can't stop thinking about tentacles," she admits, forehead creased.  "Woolly tentacles, thanks for that."
"I see you're working on your taste for masochism: excellent." 
"Wool condom." Castiel winces before he can stop himself, and Alison grins in malicious satisfaction..  "There we go.  Welcome to my brain right now. Chafing."
"Friction burns," he counters, to both their regret, sharing a shudder.  "Talk about something else--anything, I don't care.  Or never again to me.  Either one."
"Dean ever speaking to me again for agreeing he should stay indoors today?" she asks after a moment of silence long enough for him to realize his mistake: woolly condoms on tentacles and the abomination resulting from a squid (octopus?) lying (floating?) with a sheep fill his mind without warning and refuse to leave.  On the contrary, more arrive, each more surreal than the one before.
Vaguely, he remembers as an angel watching Dean's mind, fascinated by the way thoughts would pass in casual associative streams, sometimes with provocation (Sam, television programs, that strange spot on the ceiling, the Impala, Zachariah, memories of his father, Sam and Ruby, magazines with well-endowed women, Taco Bell) and with some kind of order, but often, there was neither rhyme nor reason to what caused it or why on earth he'd be thinking of cat whistles or Batman dancing on the Impala or butterfly cookies (whatever those are; Dean's image couldn't have been accurate).  It could happen at any time, often when Castiel was explaining his Father's plan to him (in retrospect, perfectly understandable), but sometimes for no reason at all.
He would have been far more patient with it if he'd realized it's not necessarily easy to control; shoving them away creates two more in their place, and they don't actually go anywhere when shoved anyway, like a hydra who doesn't understand how hydras function and the heads refuse to die when you cut them off.  
"Cas?" 
He jerks his attention back to the cab and Alison. Being distracted by Dean being provocative in his sitting and breathing is one thing, but this is ridiculous.  
"You probably shouldn't have done that, no.  Then again, I probably shouldn't have told him that before he left for the daycare.  I knew once there he'd stay indoors, but for some reason, I couldn't stop myself from saying it."
"I hear you," Alison says with a sigh that denotes experience that she also seems to have problems learning from; so he's not the only one.  "Speaking of, I checked with Dolores, and all the kids are up to date on their vaccinations, including the newest ones.  Amanda explained about the fever he had, so maybe the flu's in his future, but nothing worse."
"The entire camp, as well as Dean, should be up to date within a few weeks.  Alicia has a schedule."  Vera wasn't here for the first delivery of vaccinations, but apparently Alicia was given strict instructions on what to do when they arrived.  In all honesty, that might have been Vera's intention from the first; Alicia's cheerful implacability had been ruthlessly weaponized, and Dean (and the camp) received his first round (of four) the day before they left for Ichabod.  Dean's cold was proof of Vera's (via Alicia) warnings regarding the natural consequences of being less isolated from others and the corresponding increase in the spread of communicable diseases.
("Welcome back STDs, we hardly missed you," Vera said wistfully with a sigh that Joseph echoed.  "I'll remind Alicia to give the talk to everyone leaving the camp to hang out with the locals.")
"Is that a problem for you?" he asks curiously.  "Your trade network is limited, and I assume they do the same."
"No.  At least, not yet," she amends, leaning back in her seat.  "We have a lot of kids, and some didn't come to us with parents in tow.  Older than ten, they can usually tell us about the last time a doctor poked them with something sharp, but the younger ones--we can't take the risk.  Lily--Tony's kid," she adds at his blank look, "was only a couple months old, we think, and the other kids didn't even know her birthday, much less her medical history, so we learned that lesson before it became a problem.  Dolores loses sleep some nights just thinking about one shitty bug getting through, and not just because of the risk to the kids.  Kids can deal better with some shit, but adults are a different story."
Castiel carefully makes the turn that leads to the training field.  "And you don't require the same of the adults?"
"We would, but we can't afford it." Her expression darkens, probably thinking of the border guards; he's felt that expression on his own face often enough when reading Joseph's reports, not just on his own transactions, but those of the residents of the zone that travel to the border that he talked to.  "Only so much cash we can scavenge, and let's say they don't pay full value for what we can find that they'll take as trade.  Priority is to get every kid we can up to date, keep our antibiotic supplies at the ready, and hope for the best." 
They both fall silent as the training field comes into view; it's a mistake.
"Would a sheepapus be--
"Land, probably mammalian in its abominable form," he answers immediately as they pull into the parking area west of the training field.  "Otherwise, its woolen tentacles would become waterlogged."
She nods in relief.  "That was bothering me, thanks."
It's nearly noon when Alison abruptly becomes distracted from the progress of Amanda's students, frowning into the distance.  Castiel glances at her briefly, but she shakes her head, so he returns his attention to Amanda, quietly admiring her focused patience.
Alison abruptly grabs for the fence rail, and he barely catches her before her ankle gives out, lowering her gently to the ground.  The hazel eyes are unfocused, pupils reduced to dots.  "Alison?"
"I don't know," she whispers, blinking rapidly as she tries to gather herself.  From the corner of his eye, he sees Amanda signal for a stop, jogging toward him, her hand already dropping to her gun.  "We're--we're under attack.  All patrol report immediately--they came out of nowhere, drove straight through the wards--lockdown."  Her lips move soundlessly for a moment, face draining of color.  "They're not thinking….crap, it's too far, it's just--impressions, mostly."
Amanda effortlessly vaults the fence, landing in an easy crouch beside them.  "Cas?"
"The town is under attack," he says quietly, grabbing her arm with his free hand before she can move. It's almost a mile from here to Ichabod--even if it's muffled, her range is farther than he suspected.  Very strong emotion would definitely be a factor, as well as motivation, however; it's her town.  "Alison, relax and focus."
"Give me--" She grits her teeth, hazel eyes unfocusing again. "One minute."
"Could be raiders," Amanda murmurs.  "Nothing going bump in the night encourages that kind of thing."
"Then we have the option of asking for their surrender before shooting them."  Though not if they're pointing a gun at anyone, of course.  "Alison, find someone who can see them and tell me--
"There isn't anyone, they're too far away--" Alison's hand closes tightly over his wrist, eyes narrowed.  "Christ, it's loud, they're not thinking.  Stop that shit!"
Castiel can almost taste the spike of adrenaline, bitter-iron on the back of his tongue.  "Show me."
The noise is almost overwhelming, confusion and terror and rage in an undifferentiated, barely-coherent mass, individual thoughts jumbled between emotional spikes--
"There," Alison breathes.
--except the rage; there's no thought there at all.  That's what she meant.  "Croatoans."
"Fuck." He nods at Amanda, who gets to her feet and is shouting a command to Mark before she's cleared the fence.
"Can you find Manuel?" he asks, feeling the massive effort it takes her to try and find one mind in all that mass down to his bones.  "Tell him we're coming from the training field.  We'll report to him, but I need to know where to go."
Under literally any other circumstances, this would be fascinating; in a sudden switch, she focuses on Teresa without effort and uses her to find Manuel.  It's impossible to politely look away, the quick, intimate exchange a flash of brilliance--love and fear and reassurance and trust given and received in a moment.  Alison takes a breath as Teresa's presence buoys her, focusing with sharp clarity on Manuel.
"He's on east Main, roof of the second building on the north-northwest side; they crossed the wards from the north-northwest, hit the north fields. Six--eight, ten--twelve vehicles he can count he doesn't recognize."  She hisses a breath, eyes narrowing.  "He can't get a count--Syracuse reported in full lockdown, no one in the street, thank God.  Two teams on Main, it's in progress; Second is a mess, both streets are clearing but way too slow.  Patrol got the survivors coming from the field--fuck, get me numbers.  Sorry, not you," she says, wincing guiltily. "Just venting on your behalf, promise."
Behind him, he hears Amanda arrive, barely landing before she's kneeling beside him.  "Two minutes: Mark's checking everyone as they arm, Kamal's team's helping.  Where are we?"
"Tell Manuel ETA under ten minutes," Castiel tells Alison.  "Where does he want us?"
"He'll meet you at the northwest corner of Third," she answers.  "He said hurry, he's not leaving you any if you're late."
"Mark's on his way here," Amanda says softly.  
With his free hand, he retrieves his keys and tosses them to her. "Go get the jeep." 
"I'm driving," she says over her shoulder before breaking into a flat run.
Abruptly, Alison's hand tightens, and Castiel sees it at the same moment she does; unlike her, however, he knows exactly what she's looking at.  "Alison!  Stop."
She blinks, focus breaking.  "What--"
"Your one thing," he answers flatly. "Do it now."
"I need to--"
"Now."  It feels like forever but it's only a few seconds before it's done, and Castiel pulls his wrist free, turning to see Mark just coming over the fence, Kamal and his team just behind him.  "Mark, Alison's in your charge.  Keep her here--"
"No!" Alison says, struggling to stand up.  "I'm going with you!"
"Kamal, take everyone and report to Manuel on the northwestern corner of Third; follow his orders to the letter."  A nudge of Alison's bad ankle sends her back to the ground with an audible gasp.  "Tell him there's at least one demon orchestrating this, but assume hundreds so we'll hopefully be pleasantly surprised.  Go."
Kamal's eyes widen, but he nods, turning to gesture toward the approaching students to follow him to the jeeps parked nearby.  
"Cas, I'm going--" Alison starts.
"You're staying here, with Mark in attendance, while admiring how very bright your individual light is," he interrupts calmly.  "Unless you want to spend the rest of your very short life as a meatsuit for a demon who will know exactly how best to use your mind--that would be to enslave or kill everyone in this town and possibly the greater Midwest--then please, come along."
She sucks in a breath. "I can't just--I need to help them."
"Then survive long enough to learn how.  Mark," he says as Amanda brings the jeep to a stop nearby.  "Don't let her out of your sight; if you lose her, I'll probably kill you myself from sheer embarrassment that I trained someone so incompetent."
"Or I will!" Amanda shouts out the driver's side window.
"I know what to do," Mark says firmly, meeting his eyes.
"Alison will tell you if whoever comes to tell you it's safe is being truthful," he says, extending a hand to Alison, who glares at it before grudgingly allowing him to help her up.  "As there's also the fact that Teresa knows as well as I do what a demon would do with an inexperienced psychic, and her concentration should be on defense of the town, she won't be any less than painfully honest."
He can still feel her glare as he climbs in the jeep and takes a moment to admire Amanda's  driving skills when she hits the gas; how they'll be when confronted with a building at this speed is a question he feels no need to have answered.  
"Dean's at the daycare," she says quietly.  "Safest place in town."
"He's fine." He concentrates on the speck of the town approaching far too slowly no matter how high the odometer climbs.  "Croatoans can't drive, they rarely cooperate enough to hunt in groups, and yet somehow at least one demon conveyed greater than twelve vehicles worth into a small town that isn't even on the maps.  Also, our hiatus is over. In case it wasn't obvious."
"Had to happen here," she breathes in frustration, and yes, he finds that interesting as well, and a very useful way to occupy his mind while the jeep seems to creep along the road at the speed of a dying snail.  Dean is in the safest place in the town, surrounded by multiple salt lines, two very heavy trailers, Teresa's very effective wards, at least two teams of Ichabod's patrol, and of course, over a hundred vulnerable children in need of his protection.
"Amanda--"
"Do me a favor," she interrupts, staring at the road.  "This time, let me stop the jeep before you jump?  That shit's terrifying."
Castiel focuses on the buildings resolving before his eyes.  "Stop faster, then."
Manuel slumped briefly in relief when Castiel confirmed that Mark was with Alison. "Thank God," he breathed, possibly on behalf of both himself and his sister, before straightening to give orders in the crisp, calm voice of an experienced leader.  Listening to him, Castiel filed away a series of questions on some of his choices for later; Manuel's practical experience coordinating larger groups--and for that matter, defense as well as attack--is unquestionably superior to his own (or Dean's) and they have a great deal to learn.  
Later, observing current events from the roof of a former bank on the northern side of Second Street--an excellent choice, where Manuel can see almost all of northern Ichabod as well as keep an eye on the three occupied streets--Manuel finishes taking brief reports from his handheld unit before looking at Amanda, who nods, raising her own unit. 
"Mark reports she's sulking but fine," she answers. "Every fifteen minutes, if he can't get me, he'll go to you, then Teresa.  Channel twelve: two misses of all three, we go to Plan B, do not pass Go, do not collect two hundred dollars."
"If she'd been in town…."
"They would have found her immediately," Castiel agrees, scanning the road.  The Croats vanished into the semi-urban wilderness of northern Ichabod and are moving south; a perimeter was established immediately to protect the occupied streets, but despite that, some still appear at random intervals on Second, Main and Syracuse, though thankfully all are reported in lockdown, and no one living remains in the streets.  "Mark and Amanda were both instructed on what to do to protect her.  He'll take her to Chitaqua if Mark judges the situation untenable, and I told him exactly what that meant, in detail."
Manuel wipes a hand across his sweaty face.  "She doesn't know--"
"I didn't tell her."  Taking aim at a Croat that makes the mistake of coming out of an abandoned building--no doubt, far too much blood and growling--he shoots it through the left eye, watching critically as the head nearly dissolves due to the high caliber; this is why he far prefers rifles to handguns for this kind of work.  He has to admit, it's definitely an improvement over hunting things down to manually chop off their heads, though not nearly as personal.
Manuel stares down at the street intently, knowing as well as he and Amanda that the chances that this is an attack specifically to find Alison are very high.  By this time, she can easily be sensed at fifteen miles from Ichabod, and if her estimation of her escalation is correct (depressingly, it probably is), that distance will double every time she grows stronger until she learns how to conceal herself.  As long as she has her abilities suppressed, she's perfectly safe, which is why Mark is keeping her at the training field; an alternate possibility to demon possession is Alison reacting instinctively to the sight of her people dying, and instinct is a truly terrible way to find out what you're capable of, for everyone.  
"I suggest you and Teresa do so as soon as possible, however," he continues.  "After today, there's no reason to hide it and every reason for her to be aware of the danger to both her and her town."
"She'll try and leave," Manuel states flatly.  "There's got to be a way to--hide her here for a little longer.  Just until she can protect herself better."  He doesn't need to say he and Teresa will go with her; Teresa would never let her lover leave without her, and Manuel considers her as much his sister as one born to his blood.
"There is," he answers certainly, taking aim and firing at a half-broken window at the flash of a face twisted into rage; Manuel jumps, jerking his binoculars in the direction of the building across from him.  Protecting emerging psychics was so much easier before the invention of the automobile; horses simply could not travel very fast, and gathering your forces--even human ones--took time. "I just haven't thought of it yet."
"How the hell--"
"Fucking amazing eyesight," Amanda says, picking off a lone Croat inexplicably wandering down the middle of Third Street.  Manuel retrieves his unit at the noise, raising it to his ear and listening as Amanda does the same at a burst from hers.  "Kamal reports Sixth and Fifth are clear.  They're finishing the sweep of fifth now and moving to Fourth in two minutes."
"Main reports all is well," Manuel says to them both, displaying unexpected courtesy even under pressure in keeping them informed of developments despite their status as--at best--foreign leaders within his town.  Utilizing multiple channels on his hand-held unit to coordinate everyone, reports come at five or fifteen minute intervals, his patrol leaders show excellent sense and no sign of panic no matter what may be happening around them; he taught them extremely well.  An excellent commander, Castiel reflects wistfully, and no possible way to pry him away from Ichabod for Chitaqua.  "No movement on Syracuse or Main; everyone's reporting the town square's secure.  Teresa says nothing's tested the wards there."
He and Amanda both let out a breath of relief; the prioritization of the town square, where the town's children are located, as well as where any citizen on lunch break would have fled if they couldn't get to their homes, was very obvious, but the updates help.  
The sudden burst of sound from Amanda's device almost makes him jump, and Amanda's expression while listening tells him it's not just an update.  "Kamal reports five--six groups, came out of nowhere heading straight to Second from the east, just crossed Teresa's wards east-southeast--"
"I felt it," Manuel confirms briefly, looking at Castiel.  "First group came in north-northwest less than an hour ago.  Two groups?"
"Maybe their car broke down on the way."  She makes a face; yes, that's another thing that can't help but boggle the mind. Later, of course.  "Long walk--yeah, I don't buy it.  They think this would soften us up, maybe?"  Checking her rifle, she grins at Manuel.  "Kamal's gonna be busy with Third, so we'll take Second, if you want.  Cas?"
"With your permission, of course," Castiel says, checking his ammunition as Manuel blinks at them.
"Just you two."
"Yeah," she says absently, easing her rifle back over her shoulder and pulling her nine millimeter.  "Ask Kamal where they are now?"
"East-southeast, heading northwest toward the north corner of Second and White, ETA less than five minutes," Manuel says after a moment. "Need any help?"
"If you want, but you got enough to do holding the perimeter and clearing the fields," she answers dismissively, ponytail bobbing as she jogs toward the roof exit.  "Cas, you coming?"
"I am," he answers, smiling politely at Manuel before following Amanda.  "Thank you; idleness doesn't agree with me."
It took Falling for Castiel to begin to realize how much Croatoan showcased not just Lucifer's surprisingly insightful assessment of humanity's greatest fears, but his almost painful limitations, not least of which was a surprising certainty that prophecy would do the majority of the heavy lifting to usher in the dawn of his reign.  
To face an army made up of semi-mindless monsters who feast on human flesh and whose primary weapon is their teeth and fingernails and who can make you join their number with the inevitable spray of blood is a horror beyond imagining; to fight an army of monsters and realize victory depends mostly on keeping a safe distance and sufficient reloads for your gun (and avoiding having open wounds or consuming their blood, the last of which is probably not terribly difficult) makes it far more mundane an endeavor.  Minimal accuracy is preferable but not always necessary; more than once, he's thought of the minigun he'd read about on Wikipedia once with actual longing and dreamed pleasant dreams of mowing them down by the legion from a nearby rooftop without leaving the comfort of a convenient chair. 
Two teams of Amanda's students appear before they finish with the street, and Amanda takes the opportunity to observe them with the few remaining Croats.  It's as close to a controlled environment they'll get, and so he and Amanda take up a full sweep of Second Street west to east, herding the remaining Croats toward them.  All have at least some experience on patrol--which is true of most able-bodied adults in Ichabod--but practice never hurt anyone and he needs to think, because something about this doesn't fit, other than everything.
They're doing very well, however; the Croats are being isolated and exterminated with admirable efficiency, keeping them away from the temptation of reinforced doors behind which the residents not assigned to protect the town are concealed.  This would be going almost unsettlingly well if there weren't so many.  
"And fuck my life, a third group just broke through, east-east-northeast--they'll hit north corner of Main in under ten minutes," Amanda reports, jogging up beside him with her unit against her ear.  "Manuel dispatched two patrol teams to reinforce the perimeter."  She puts it back in her belt with a baffled expression.  "Jesus, they must really want her; this is a shitload of Croats to keep in reserve without them killing each other just to get one psychic."
Demons aren't known for their tactical thinking, and while 'throwing everything possible at the problem' is perfectly legitimate, this is a lot to throw, and there's no sign of it ending.  His confirmed kill count is over eighty (eighty-three, to be exact), and that doesn't include the confirmed kills of anyone else, which he estimates now number well above two hundred.  That number makes as much sense as the inescapable visual of demons herding hostile Croatoans into battered compact cars to attack a town in the southern central Kansas and then making them wait outside the ward line until needed, which is none at all. Even for the joy of slaughter and capturing or killing a powerful psychic, this is overkill for a population of a little over one thousand people.
As Amanda checks each alley on western Second again, Castiel pauses to reload just as a Croat emerges unexpectedly from the third alley connecting Third and Second Street.  Annoyed, he slams the magazine in with his knee as he pulls his knife, gutting it when it lurches into range before cutting its throat.  A boot on its chest keeps it still long enough for him to estimate the time since it manifested full infection before he shoots it in the head and dodges back to avoid excess entrails.  It's not a danger to him, but one of the first things he was taught was to be a good example for others, and Amanda's students might be watching.
Hours, maybe: much more importantly, both the clothing and the thinness of the bodies confirm all of these people are residents of the infected zone, and there's no possible way they were from anywhere but Kansas itself.
Thanks to Dean and a stunning variety of automobile specialists at multiple garages across the greater United States, he knows in no world could this many substandard economy vehicles (nineteen at last count, all in terrible condition, according to Manuel) elude the border patrol on any existing road, and he just doesn't think the upper performance limit of a Honda Accord--even in mint condition, which none of these vehicles are--includes much off-road driving.  Especially when the passengers are trying to kill each other, and the ones still alive look surprisingly intact for extended periods of time trapped with their own kind.  He suspects when this is over and they check the plates, they'll be from within Kansas, with a potential rental car outlier, and the gas tanks will be very close to empty.  
If Jeffrey could get into Kansas, any demon could (but didn't, not since Dean arrived here, not until Jeffrey, who said the barrier was weakening, not until now), and only one would be needed to begin spread of Croatoan again.  Jeffrey's first order of business was to confront him regarding the barrier he didn't even know existed only miles from Chitaqua; this demon's (demons?) is to infect a large group to be immediately killed while attacking a town that houses a new psychic.  Somehow, he doesn't think Lucifer would approve of such a waste of resources for someone he can kill at his leisure with a thought.  
One who should have been killed the night she manifested, if Lucifer hadn't inexplicably abandoned this plane.  Lucifer's a terrible general, but he did learn how to evaluate risk and eliminate it.  If he knew about Alison, a mere human or not, he wouldn't send his minions to kill her; he'd do it himself.
Amanda jogs up beside him as he reaches the center point of Second Street, handing him a canteen of water and a clean cloth after a single amused smirk.  Sighing, he wipes the small spray of blood from his face--he's out of practice dodging adequately, apparently--before handing her back the canteen and tucking the infected cloth into an interior pocket of his jacket.  Croatoan blood remains infectious for some time, and they generally deal with the problem with the application of salt and fire.
"Everything north of Second Street is clear.  Manuel said nothing else has breached the outer wards and nothing's touched the square," she says in a breath, adding, "Should have gotten a unit this morning like I told you to."
"I didn't know I'd be engaged in combat before lunch," he argues, which simply shows how badly he's out of practice there, too.  "Main?"
"Outliers.  They're shooting on sight anything that moves, but that's it." She hesitates, lowering her voice.  "Manuel's worried about Teresa. She's holding two circles at once, and she's never had to for this long before, not like this.  Those Croats are like sinks or something; barely slows them down when they cross, but it takes it out of her anyway when they do."  She hesitates for a moment.  "Earth's going dormant--it knows the seasons even if the weather doesn't--and she gets too much from it…."
"It will kill their winter crops and the land might not recover in time for spring planting, I know." The earth will protect itself from permanent damage, but that's all it will do; it's Teresa's responsibility to decide the threshold that would include human needs as well.
He calculates the amount of time it's been; the perimeter wards are the only thing they have to warn them if another group of Croats appear and may be the only thing keeping whatever demon or demons at bay who are controlling this.  The wards around the square are the only thing other than salt lines that are protecting the town square should those guarding it be attacked.  
"How much longer can she hold them?"
Amanda's lips tighten.  "She said forever if she has to." 
This won't stop until they find Alison or all of them are dead, and that may very well include the people of this town. 
Give her the strength she needs, he thinks.  She asks only for what is impossible to do alone.  It's not so much to ask, for this one thing, in this one time, this place; what purpose could there be to deny her this? 
Even to himself, he's not sure who he's speaking to, much less why.
"I don't know why Lucifer bothered with a war; we could have resolved this with a Playstation with the same effort involved in shooting semi-mindless targets."  He evaluates the street again and focuses at the sound of a woman's voice cursing in very creatively obscene Japanese: Haruhi.  "Amanda--"
"Yeah, I see her--crap, Derek's down."  Castiel shoots the particularly annoying specimen menacing Haruhi, who's trying to reload her gun while protecting Derek, sprawled against the wall behind her, unconscious but not visibly injured, and the two members of her team retrieving him.  It takes practice to do that when someone is trying their best to chew on you; all things considered, she's doing very well.
Haruhi doesn't waste time expressing surprise at a dead Croatoan at her feet; dodging sideways, she kicks a wheelbarrow at the one behind it, finishes her reload, and shoots it in the head, following with another shot when it hits the ground and skipping back to avoid the worst of the blood.  
"That's my girl," Amanda says fondly, signaling to Haruhi that she and Castiel will take care of the others and watching the well-ordered retreat in satisfaction, Haruhi covering their back.  Frowning, she helps him neutralize the remaining Croats, watching them die with an unsatisfied look.  "Much longer, Dean's gonna be asking us if we're getting soft.  Kind of surprised he hasn't yet."
"He's fine."  Possibly making those guarding the town square miserable, but fortunately, they seem to have kept their individual units away from him so far.  This could be much worse, he realizes in dawning horror; for want of a cold, Dean might have insisted on fighting and Castiel can't pretend he'd actually be able to stop him.  For viruses give and they take away, blessed be vaccinations for those that can be and even those that can't--  "Lily was only a few weeks old."
"What?"  Wiping her face carefully, Amanda continues her check of the nearly-empty street.  "Tony's youngest?  What about her?"
"Vaccinations--Alison said the other children didn't even know her birthday.  She's approximately two and a half years old.  Ichabod was just settled then; why would they already have children without parents that needed vaccinations?"
Amanda gives him a startled look but thankfully doesn't ask; woolly tentacle condoms and sheepapodes are probably not the answer she's looking for. "Uh, Lily--right, those kids.  It was weird, actually, how they found them--I told Alison she should tell you and Dean about it, never heard anything like it.  They were at--"
"A church," he says. "Fifteen children, two and a half weeks old to ten years, eight months, ten male, five female."  He looks at Amanda.  "They were the only survivors--them and a young woman."
"Yeah."  Amanda searches his face.  "Weird shit went down, they never figured out what happened--Cas, it's been years, you don't think.…" 
"That they're not here for Alison?  Not anymore." He takes the unit from her belt and flips it off, just in case.  "What channels do Ichabod's patrol use?"
"Patrol uses first five," she says.  "Main's got its own to report, but they're listening on the others probably.  Why?  Never mind, give it here." Taking it, she flips it on.  "Manuel, can't hear anything over the gunfire; repeat your last order three times, would you?"
There's a brief pause.  "Hold positions; repeat, hold positions; repeat, last time, hold all positions until further orders.  Five units checked-in; good job everyone.  Over."  
She hands it back.  "Last channel minus five."
He methodically switches channels until he hears Manuel's voice.  "…anytime you're ready."
"When's the last time those guarding the town square reported?"
"Ten minutes ago: all's well.  Why?"
"Contact them and ask them where Chitaqua's commander is in two minutes," he answers, shooting a lurching specimen emerging unexpectedly from an alley connected to Third before kicking it aside.  "Manuel, this is important--don't use Dean's name.  Also, sweep Third again; I just killed one coming from there."  
"Got it," Manuel answers briefly before the channel goes silent.
"Cas?" Amanda asks as he starts toward the nearest alley with access to Main. "Want to catch me up?"
"We're being distracted very well.  I'm almost impressed."  The desired alley is guarded by a team of Amanda's students, their guns lowering only upon recognition: excellent.  "Move."
They do so immediately, and Castiel gives Amanda the unit as he passes them--are those salutes?--stopping just short of Main Street and leaning out for a quick assessment.  Several Croats attempting destruction in lieu of prey in full line of sight of the three people guarding the town center.  Who show startlingly little interest in the Croats to match the lack of interest the Croats show in them: interesting.
"One minute forty-five," Amanda says after a brief look and turning on the unit again.  "Ready."
Emerging onto the street, Castiel notes all three are suddenly very, very interested when they see him.  At two minutes and twenty-eight seconds, he hears Amanda's unit make a noise followed by the faint sound of Manuel's voice.
"They said--they told Manuel that Chitaqua's commander's right in front of them," Amanda reports softly.  "Manuel, call everyone in now not working perimeter; we got demons guarding the fucking town center."
"At least one is inside the square already." Castiel watches the demons, one shooting at a nearby Croat with very little aim and no enthusiasm at all.  They need more practice with convincingly playing human.
"He says the wards haven't been crossed," Amanda says, but not in denial; she knows as well as he does that Dean would react very poorly to demons pretending to be members of patrol. Not to mention their reaction to Dean Winchester's apparent resurrection. "Teresa wouldn't have missed it."
"It was inside before they went up.  They had help doing this."
Amanda catches her breath.  "Someone in Ichabod?"
"New people, who needed their children vaccinated and could confirm the fifteen children from that church were in Ichabod," he answers as the Croatoans pause in their random labor, brought under control by their masters and turning toward them.  Ichabod doesn't get many visitors and rarely leave the safety of the town unless on official business, but they do, sometimes, get new residents, some quite recent.  Vera's lecture on the rapid spread of STDs was enlightening on many levels.  "And probably gave the toddler room, their associated parents, and Dean that cold."
Amanda says something into the device before putting it away, coming up beside him as he takes in each face.  "Are they residents of this town?"
"One's a new guy," she answers softly, observing the street beginning to fill with chill anticipation as her rifle falls into her hand.  "None are patrol."
 He nods.  "I'll take everything on the right."
We are chaos incarnate, he once told Dean; in that much, the only thing that mortality changed was who held the leash, not what happened when it snapped.
He's within ten feet of the trailer when he sees one of the three demons, looking confused and somewhat annoyed only feet from the corridor leading to the town center, tiny sparks fading around him like the flutter of rainbow wings.  Disorientation and loss of muscular control: excellent choice of warding to supplement the salt line, he thinks approvingly as he shoves it against the trailer, pinning its head against the metal before cutting through the spinal column and severing the spinal cord.  
Averting his eyes from the burst of light as it dies, he lets it fall, kicking the head out of his way and identifying the entrance through the dust and dirt filling the air by the backward tumble of a body landing on its back with bone-breaking force.  Still dazed, it stays conveniently prone, oily black eyes widening in belated surprise when his knee shatters their rib cage and spine, crushing the lungs and heart into the asphalt beneath them before he cuts its throat with a gush of blood.
Wiping his knife on the knee of his jeans, he goes still at the feel of a blade against his throat.  "Castiel," a voice says in what might be shock, hesitating.  "What are you--"
It ends in a grunt from the elbow in its side, bone shattering as he rolls away, catching himself on one hand and tossing the knife to Amanda as she passes him, appreciating her economy of movement as she slams the demon into the trailer, knife sinking into its unprotected chest.  She jerks the knife out, turning her head away at the burst of light, and wipes it clean on her thigh before tossing it back to him and getting her rifle again.
"Kamal's team's keeping the other two distracted on the other side while Teresa finishes up a devil's trap," she says, kicking the last remaining Croat through the chest before shooting it in the head when it hits the ground.  Adding a second shot that destroys the skull entirely, she jumps back to avoid the worst of the blood and brain, careful to avert her face.  "Kamal confirmed they're both riding patrol.  What's the call?"
"Hold them with minimal injury, if possible," he answers, starting toward the corridor and allowing for the first time the thought of what's happening to Dean in the town square; the certainty he's fine hasn't diminished in the slightest, but there are many values of fine.  "Get a team of your students to guard this side and go verify the demons are safely contained personally, then report to me.  I'll handle whatever's inside."
"Yell if you need help."
All three salt lines are intact, he notes at once as he starts down the corridor, stepping over each one, bracing himself for whatever awaits him inside before he emerges into the courtyard and empty, waiting silence.
Quickly, he catalogues the bodies sprawled in various types of dead (Dean isn't among them (he's fine), or any of the children), counting; twenty-one adults, among them two Croats.  Near two adult bodies sprawled on the porch (gunshot to the head, not Croat, interesting), behind a barricade of armchairs and an overturned sofa topped with half-open, blood-stained lawn chairs, cluster a multitude of wide, unseeing eyes fixed on something in the center of the courtyard, the only area clear of bodies.
Taking out his shortest knife, he goes to the edge, taking in the completed circle: the outer edge is eight feet in diameter, the inner five feet, the design itself encompassing the one and a half feet between the inner and outer circles.  It wasn't done well; the concrete shows signs of changes and corrections to the chalk, barely functional erasures, as if drawn for the first time by inexpert hands from memory.  Slicing his palm, he circles the perimeter while letting the blood pool: the same pattern repeats throughout in short, ragged segments counterclockwise northwest to northeast until the last quarter, a more elaborate version of the pattern, new symbols appearing within before joining (barely) at northwest again: a closing sequence.  
Crouching at the southeast side, he glances at the immobile children before sliding his hand from the outer edge to the inner circle and feels it unmake, like fabric folding sharp-edged into itself before dissolving from now.  He looks up in time to see the children collapse, falling to the porch.  Unconscious: that would be for the best right now, especially if they're unaware of what happened out here.
Wrapping his hand in fresh gauze, he takes a step toward the porch and stops short at the click of a safety.  Turning, he sees Dean a few feet away, half-hidden from view by an overturned sofa and straddling another, unmoving body in a pool of blood, one blood-stained hand pointing a gun at Castiel's head.
It's too soon to feel anything like relief.  "Dean."
"You're gonna have to wait," Dean says, never looking away from the demon beneath him.  "I'm a little busy right now."
He's not sure he expected anything like this, if he expected anything at all.
A twelve-inch hunting knife is buried in the demon's forehead to the hilt as it stares eyeless into the sky.  That one would account for the dismemberment of the demon; fingers at each joint to the palm, hand at the wrist, forearm at the elbow, upper arm at the shoulder joint, expertly performed and all pieces neatly stacked to the left of the head; the legs are only intact to the knee; the blade became too dull, he suspects from the ragged appearance of the stump, and Dean suited his next activity the blood-stained seven-inch dagger currently in his right hand, completing a full vivisection and castration, organs and flesh piled in an oozing mass just right of the shoulder, before going to work on its head.  
"Wouldn't talk," Dean says softly, green eyes coming up to meet his like a punch.  "Hard to do without a tongue, though. Didn't think of that."
Castiel nods, licking his lips; the demon's still in there, squirming weakly and not sane by any definition of the word, not anymore.  "Dean, put down the gun."
"Not done yet."  He looks back down at the demon with a slow smile.  "Anyone ever tell you not to punch a three year old?  Did you actually need to be told that?  Seems pretty obvious to me, but hey, what do I know?  No time like the present to learn, right?"
Castiel looks at the pile of upper limbs and focuses on a bloody, upturned palm.  He missed it the first time; just visible beneath the drying blood is the symbol he didn't finish on Jeffrey in its completed form.
That, he supposes, would be why the demon is still in there.  "Are you going to shoot me?"
Dean scowls, irritated by the distraction.  "No, of course not."
"Then put down the gun." He doesn't wait, however; crossing the courtyard, he crouches, extending Ruby's knife to Dean as he takes out his boot knife and sketches the symbol on the demon's intact thigh.  "When I unmake it, cut its throat."
"I'm not--"
"You're done," he says flatly, setting the tip of his knife against one edge.  "Shoot me before I unmake this or cut its throat when I'm done; I don't know if even that knife can kill a demon before this is unmade and this isn't the time to test it.  Now."
A quick slash across the lines unmakes it just as the body jerks convulsively with a burst of dull light.  Wiping his knife clean, he sheathes it and turns to look at Dean, who's staring down at the remains of the demon's face, blankness being slowly replaced with a dangerous mix of rage and confusion.  Getting up, he crosses to the right side of the body, kicking Dean's knife away as Dean drops his handgun and taking Ruby's knife from the lax fingers; Dean carries his boot knife on the right, and he can easily stop him before he gets it.  
"Dean?" he asks quietly, getting his full attention.  "Where are the rest of the children?"
"Top floor: Glenn and the other teachers are with them. Salted the door and top and bottom of the stairs myself," he says tonelessly.  "They had a list, hit every room with it."
He nods, watching Dean's face carefully.  "A list?"
"Of kids--said they needed to pick them up, that their parents wanted them; it didn't make sense." He grimaces, reaching to wipe a blood-soaked hand across his forehead, wet hair clinging to his skin in half-clotted spikes.  "I just saw Tony, he was working at the plant today, said he might be late; no way he got there, did his shit, and got back in a couple of hours; they're trying to get Third street up and running.  Wasn't even lunch yet--Callie and Emmy locked themselves in the second floor art room," he interrupts himself, looking toward the door of the daycare.  "They might be infected, it was--an hour ago?"  His expression hardens.  "This morning--they timed it, had to, so they wouldn't get caught by the perimeter wards.  Infected while stepping over them maybe, who does that?"
He examines the square again, marking out each of the twenty-one other bodies; six he recognizes as parents who dropped their children off at the daycare this morning; four as residents who probably came here when the alarm was called, too far from their homes, perhaps; two as adolescents assigned to daycare duty, weapons still clutched in some hands; two Croats near the unmade circle in the center of the courtyard; the rest, he's not sure.
"Who were 'they'?" It wasn't Callie and Emmy that Dean thinks deliberately infected themselves.
"They're new," Dean confirms, forehead creasing uncertainly as he looks down, but Castiel reaches for his chin, gently easing the green eyes back up.  "Part of a group, came--two, about three weeks ago, Glenn said."
"And gave the toddler room and you that cold, I assume."  Dean almost smiles, but it's gone before it's anything more than a twitch of blood-flecked lips.  "How many were in that group?"  Dean's at the daycare at least a few hours every day he's here; he'd notice new children, new faces in the daycare.
"Uh--seven adults, ten kids--Glenn told me about 'em, said they checked in at noon every day to have lunch with their kids, never missed a day." His mouth twists bitterly.  "Thought they were really nice.  Good parents."
"How old were their children?"
Dean hesitates, eyes distant.  "Two in the toddler room, three preschool, uh…two in the five to seven room, two in the eight to ten, one eleven-twelve, one--"
"Thirteen year old," he finishes; that would be for the oldest possible surviving child.  They needed a reason to visit every room in the age range of those fifteen children, become a familiar face to both the daycare attendants and the children; they must have checked at least one of the other towns in the trade alliance and to their good fortune, could get information on the other four towns with very little effort.
"I told Callie and Emmy not to let 'em leave--distract 'em, something--and Glenn and Una and Francisco to get all the kids to the top floor," Dean continues, then frowns uncertainly.  "No--no, that was after.  I was going to admin, but--I went to check the corridors first, don't know why.  West side, all three lines were broken--I fixed them, went to admin…." He swallows.
"They were already dead." 
He nods, eyes blank.  "Two of the new people--they were outside, doing something with the chalk, I thought they were drawing something for the kids at first--I told them to run, tell Manuel about--and I heard Callie scream, right in time to realize they were changing….shot 'em both.  I went to the eastern entrance, saw Jake staring down at the salt lines and not liking 'em.  Just before Teresa's wards came up; fuck, if he'd been a little closer, they would have caught him.  I should've…."
"The safety of the children was your priority."  Five adult infiltrators accounted for, including the bodies of one of the demons: that leaves two more. The body Dean's sitting on wasn't one of them;  a teenage male--he thinks it may be Grant, whose adolescent romance with Connie has been a fixture in Dean's anecdotes regarding daycare drama, as he calls it.  "The other two new residents…."
"Guess he needed helpers that wouldn't turn on him and could still think," Dean answers softly, looking down at the remains with an expression he can't read. "They were keeping the kids in line--looked sad about it, too, Jesus, one was fucking crying--with this guy telling 'em…."  He jerks his gaze up to Castiel.  "How the fuck did it get across the perimeter wards, get in here to get him?  Manuel says it's like touching a live wire when they go off!"
"Where are those two?"
His eyes dart to the porch briefly. "Dead," he says without regret.
"Good."  The rest can wait; he'll need to check Callie and Emmy, but if Dean thinks they're infected, it's likely they are.  "Were you injured?"
Dean blinks at him slowly before his mouth twists open in a barked laugh.  "Yeah, I--" The sound changes into something horrible before it cuts off as he abrupt gets to his feet, taking two steps before his right leg gives out, and Castiel just catches him, easing him to the ground, noticing his flannel overshirt is efficiently wrapped just below his knee: not serious, and the blood he can see isn't fresh.   Beneath the dust and drying blood, Dean's nearly grey with fatigue and potential blood loss as well as shock, but nothing sufficient rest and some medical attention won't fix.
"We should leave."
"I can't leave," Dean says, wiping his face tiredly.  "The kids--Glenn's holding the third floor until he gets confirmation from you it's safe, I told him--told him not to let anyone else take them until you cleared it.  What else…Callie and Emmy, got that--Christ, I can't think…."
"You can tell me later," he says impatiently.  "Dolores needs to check your leg--"
"I. Can't. Leave."  He stares at Castiel before looking down. Following his gaze, Castiel sees the shape of teeth imprinted in Dean's right forearm just above the wrist through the drying blood, but he has no idea what that's supposed to indicate.  "Cas."  Tearing his gaze away at the note of urgency in Dean's voice, he looks at him in confusion.  "It got to the second floor, was gonna break the salt line, the kids…. I wasn't fast enough. Ten--fifteen minutes, maybe, I don't rem--not sure."
Familiarity with Dean's methodology tells him at least an hour was spent three feet away from their current position: at least one and a half hours since exposure, but less than two.
"Demons got away--I think one of them recognized us, figured out how shitty their lives were about to become.  Dolores is checking the residents that played meatsuit, but they seemed--alive, anyway. Manuel reports they've cleared almost all streets, just mop-up now," Amanda says from behind him, rattling off the information as she enters the courtyard.  "Do you need any--"  There's a short pause--that would be when she realizes what she's looking at, he supposes--then in a completely different voice, "Cas?"
"Everything's dead that could be a threat," he answers mechanically, looking back to see the children are fully awake and staring at the courtyard with glazed eyes. "The children on the porch should be taken to Dolores immediately; they're in shock and should be placed in isolation, but tell her it's very unlikely they were infected.  The rest are on the third floor with Glenn and the other teachers; it's best they stay there until…the building as well as the courtyard's been cleared, to avoid the risk of infection."  Dean lets out a ragged breath, shoulders slumping.  "Dean was injured by the demon, and I don't want to move him until I've seen the extent of his injuries.  Secure the square and report to Manuel or Teresa immediately; whatever they were trying to do here failed, but I need time to examine it, and no one is to enter here until I give the order, especially Teresa.  Put Kamal's team at both entrances to make sure of it."
"Got it," Amanda says quietly, starting across the blood-soaked concrete to the children. He has no idea how she gets them to move, but shock does have the advantage of encouraging docility.  Eventually, they're gone, and he and Dean are the only ones remaining in the silent courtyard.
Dean takes a shuddering breath, then another.  "Four to six hours?"
"Approximately.  Eight is the threshold."  As if it were as fragile as glass, he takes Dean's wrist, easing his arm closer to examine the messy, jagged tears--human teeth even wielded by Croats are not particularly efficient, but they are effective--as his mind runs through the statistical probability of exposure, searching for a single loophole; there isn't one, which probably means he needs to make one up very quickly.  "I can't sense anything yet. It's possible--"
"Am I contagious yet?" The fear in Dean's voice is impossible to miss.  "I was careful--I think, anyway."
"I told you, I can't sense anything yet."  It takes an hour in most cases to show the first stage, but it can be as long as two.  "We should--"
"Do it now," Dean whispers hoarsely.  "Before I'm dangerous to anyone."
"Do what?"
"Shoot me."  As if it's the most obvious thing in the world.  "So I don't spread this, so I don't--"
"Shoot you."  Sitting back on his heels, he reaches for Dean's face, noticing as if from a distance the tacky-red-black streaks he's leaving Dean's skin and ignoring his efforts to pull away to searches his face in disbelief.  "You're serious.   Why would I--"
"Cas!"  The edge of desperation in his voice cuts through him more sharply than any bullet ever had; hearing it could kill him.  "Cas," he says more quietly.  "Don't make this harder than it already is."
"Harder." He watches his own thumb tracing the imprint of the wound, and thinks of finding Dean's body in Kansas City, empty windows watching him in the same shroud of silence that fills the courtyard now.  He's always been here, he'll always be here; all this time, he never left.  "You think--you think you know….you have no idea," he chokes out, "no idea what hard means, hard is--"
"Cas, listen to me--"
"--nothing like this!" he says savagely.  "Killing is easy, I've done it more than you can imagine before you were even born. I took human lives in my Father's name without hesitation, but you, you think this is hard--for you, hundreds of my Brothers died trying to free you from Hell, and it was in your name I took the lives of those who survived, in nomine Dean--"
Dean's hands clutch desperately in his t-shirt.  "Cas--"
"And thou art a merciless fucking god, Dean Winchester!  Even my Father didn't make Abraham sacrifice his son to prove his love, but you ask me to sacrifice you, everything and all things to me, and you call it hard?  You don't know the meaning of the word!"  
"Cas, stop--"
"Why not, there's nothing else I haven't given at your command, soli Dean Gloria, offered on your altar, ad maiorem Dean gloriam--"
"Jesus, Cas, stop!"  Dean shoves an arm around his shoulders, and Castiel collapses against him, helpless to control the broken sobbing. "I'm sorry," he whispers brokenly, breath warm against his temple.  "I'm so sorry."
"I'd kill myself for idolatry," he breathes against Dean's shirt, fingers twisting helplessly in the threadbare material,  "but it's the least of the sins I've committed meriting execution by degree, and even alphabetically, it's--it's--"
"Pretty far down, I get it." Dean swallows, arms tightening around him.  "I'd do it myself, I'd have done it before you got here, I swear, but I'm out of bullets."
"You're out of bullets."  He thinks of telling Alison this; he would already be dead, still warm but very dead, when I got here, except that he ran out of bullets.  If you don't see the humor of that, I don't know what to tell you.  "You forgot to bring sufficient reloads.  You're still alive because you forgot--"
"I thought, this morning…" Dean makes a horrible sound that in another life might have been a laugh.  "Wanted to see how long it took you notice at breakfast, forgot to grab 'em before I left."
"I suppose you won, then."  Dean's shaking from--shock, blood-loss, fatigue, the countdown toward cannibalism and madness, your only hope of a clean, easy death exhibiting signs of incipient insanity, pick them all--and shuts his eyes, breathing in dirt and sweat and blood.  He remembers when he thought that the hardest thing he ever did was let Dean Winchester go to that confrontation with Lucifer knowing he would die there; he didn't know the meaning of the word.
Castiel thinks: Give him something, I don't care what, just that it help him.  Give me something, anything, that will save him.  I ask only for what is impossible to do alone.  It's not so much to ask, for this one life, this one man, in this one time, this place; what purpose could there be to deny me this when you've denied me all else?  Please help me, help me, help me. 
"I'm sorry."  Dean's breath ruffles his hair, warm against his sweaty skin.  "If there was anyone else--"
"I brought sufficient ammunition and used very little of it," he mutters against Dean's chest.  "I could get through a significant portion of this town before anyone could get close enough to even try.  I'm not sorry."
He's woken, sick with horror, from dreams of following Dean Winchester to that confrontation with Lucifer: sometimes, he's successful only in joining him in death; often, he fails even in that.  Lucifer would mock him while in an alley he would never see, this man he only met once before would be slowly killed, or worse.  More times than he can count those first weeks, he sat just inside the door of the cabin and watched Dean sleep until dawn, the rawness of grief somehow eased as he listened to every slow, even breath; Dean was here, he was safe, Lucifer didn't have him, and he never would.
The only thing we risk, he told Dean, is that we might experience a profound sense of disappointment if we survive long enough to realize that we've lost.
If he knew then that it would end like this--the first time he met Dean Winchester, when he rebelled, when he Fell, that moment in the alley, that night in the cabin and those first hideous weeks that were grief and rage and endless, monotonous duty driving every moment awake like a nightmare without hope of waking, the eternity of the fever, coffee and maps and quiet evenings on the porch, terrible Egyptian poetry--if he knew it would end like this….
"I'm not sorry."  I'm not; not that I left Dean that night, that I was in that alley while he died at Lucifer's hand, that I met you and saved you, and it was never a question that I'd die for either of you, but you-- "I'd do it again, all of it.  It was worth it."  
"I know." He thinks he can feel every individual finger digging into his back, bruises he'll feel forever, unhealed.  "What the fuck was I thinking…fuck!" Voice breaking, Dean slides a hand up, cupping the back of his neck and squeezing tight.  "I'm sorry, I never should have asked you to--some things you don't ask."
Castiel squeezes his eyes closed, trying to concentrate on that touch, this moment, this man and nothing else.  Help me. It's not so much to ask.
"Look at me."  Dean gently eases his head up, and through the blur of tears, he sees his shaky smile.  Biting his lip, Dean uses his sleeve to wipe roughly across Castiel's cheeks, thumb sweeping a gentle apology after. "There we go.  You with me?"
"Don't leave me." 
The smile wobbles, vanishing, Dean's face crumpling like paper.  "God, Cas--"
"Please." Fisting Dean's shirt, he tries to jerk him closer, but the thin material tears away between his fingers no matter how hard he tries to hold on.  "Please don't leave me."
"I don't want to."  They're so close Castiel can feel his breath against his lips before he tips his head forward, forehead warm against his own.  "You--you gotta know I--"
"Then don't!" He loses words in a breathless sob as Dean's fingers curve around the back of his head, shaking hand stroking through his hair.  "I can't do this."
"Yeah, you can," Dean whispers.  "And this is what you're gonna do now.  You're going to give me your gun--"
"No!"
"--and walk out of here," he continues inexorably.  "You're not watching this, Cas.  I'm not gonna do that to you.  Fucker did that much for you; so can I."
Castiel shakes his head. "No.  No--"
"You're gonna back to Chitaqua," Dean says, breath warm against his lips, "and you tell 'em it's not over yet.  You're gonna keep fighting."
"It won't matter--"
"It matters!" Dean takes a ragged breath, fingers trembling against his face.  "It matters, Cas.  Every day, every hour, every minute, every goddamn second you can get, you're gonna take 'em."
"I can't--"
"You can.  You will."  Dean pulls back to look at him, fingers stroking back his hair to smile in his eyes.  "When you step on the field, you're gonna tell Lucifer, the Host, and prophecy to fuck themselves, because you're gonna win this."  His smile widens, the wet green eyes incandescent.  "You never give up on anything, Cas.  You don't even know how."
Dean turns head sharply, and in the distance Castiel hears the dull sound of voices, words slurred into incomprehensibility but growing closer each second that passes.  Taking a deep breath, he looks at Castiel again.
"It's time," he says quietly, threading his fingers through Castiel's hair one last time before slowly letting go.  "Let me do this, Cas.  I'm ready."
It's forever; here, in that room, in that courtyard, in that grove; the voices beyond the trailers, the flat buzz of the monitors drowning out Vera's voice, the sound of Lucifer's footsteps, the shouts of the mob; it's the fate of all those born mortal, the inexorable sweep of death that leaves stillness and silence and unhealed, unhealing loss in its wake.  
Time heals nothing.  You have to want to.
You're useless to me, you're better than this, why isn't he responding, am I dying, I need time, I can't get a rhythm, it's been ten minutes, I'm sorry, he promised he would be here, you never give up on anything, so what's it gonna be?
Try again.
"Now tell me what the first rule is again?" Vera said sweetly.  "Last time before you go, we'll say it together on the count of three: one, two, three--"

Don't panic.

"I'm not."
He catches Dean's wrist just short of his gun, feeling bones as fragile as eggshells beneath the thin skin, pulse beating frantically against the pad of his thumb.
"I'm not ready," he says, meeting Dean's eyes.  "It's not over yet."
"Cas, you know how this ends--"
"--and every day, every hour, every minute, every second until then are mine."  Holding Dean's eyes, he draws his gun and ejects the magazine, leaving one round in the chamber.  "I'm taking them."
"Cas--" He stops, searching his face with sudden attention.  "What's going on?"
"I need time."
He stills, a strange expression crossing his face.  "Time."
"Do you trust me?" he asks, hearing the voices just beyond the trailers.  "Yes or no, it's a simple question--"
"It's a stupid fucking question," Dean interrupts.  "Answer's yes and always has been.  Now tell me--"
"Then trust me now." Tightening his grip on the butt, he calculates the least damaging angle.  "I apologize for the headache in advance.  The kit in the car has a sedative; I'll use that on the way."
He's just finished wrapping the bite and easing Dean's limp arm into the protection of his own jacket when he hears footsteps behind him.
"I know Croat bodies when I see them," Amanda says quietly.
Castiel realizes his hand on his gun when he turns to confront her, Dean a limp weight against his shoulder.  She doesn't move--even now, he can kill her before she can draw--but if she was going to kill him, she wouldn't have risked waiting; he taught her better than that.
Taking a deep breath, he drops his hand and watches her cross the distance between them. Dropping to a crouch, blue eyes scan Dean carefully, dismissing the leg wound and moving unerringly to his right arm, hidden beneath the sleeve of the coat.  She must have seen it earlier, he realizes; she knew before she left with the children.
"I knew I should have assigned someone to watch him, just for the hell of it.  Good practice, something." Her voice breaks on the last word before she composes herself.  "Goddamn it.  If there's a bullet, he's throwing himself in front of it.  Or a pair of teeth aimed at three year old."
"It was my responsibility to see to his security while he was here."  
She drops her head into one bloody hand for a long moment, shoulders shaking, tendrils of blood-streaked blonde hair that escaped from her ponytail clinging to her cheek, her neck.
"Let me handle clean-up in here," she says finally, lifting her head, eyes red but voice steady and clear.  "Manuel went to get Alison personally. She's gonna give the quarantine order as soon as everyone's checked in, but I parked your jeep off the east entrance into here.  She said to wait about ten minutes, though; she called a meeting, and that should be enough of a distraction for you to leave.  Everyone will assume you and Dean went back to Chitaqua to tell them what happened and get Dean's wounds treated. She knows about the fever, didn't want to risk--you know."
"You knew and told her…."  He swallows.  "Why?"
"I thought…."  She swallows.  "I knew you'd want to take him home."
Dean wants more of his militia than unthinking, unquestioning obedience, and for the first time, he understands why.  Habit isn't the same as trust, and that trust must be earned to have any value.  "He's infected."
She nods, mouth tight.
"He'll survive."  
Amanda's head snaps up; what happens to a person when they're infected has never been considered survival.  "What?"
"He'll survive it."
She meets his eyes. "You're sure?"
"Yes," he answers.  "He will."
She stares at him for a moment before she makes a soft sound, half-laugh, half-sob.  Gulping, she wipes her eyes hurriedly and takes a deep breath.  "Okay--uh."  Glancing down at Dean, she hesitates, looking up, mouth trembling on a smile.  "You knocked him out?"
"Yes," he admits.  "And never before now have I appreciated more that our kits include sedatives."
"I'm glad I'm gonna be quarantined," she says with a tremulous smile.  "Best excuse ever not to be in Chitaqua when he wakes up."  Getting to her feet, she listens for a minute; the sound of voices outside the walls is muffled but becoming steadily more audible, though even to him the words are slurred into a dulled white noise.  "Okay, you gotta go and I gotta get the courtyard cleaned up," her eyes flicker to the remains of the demon; retrieve Dean's weapons so they'll make the most useful assumption, yes, "and--"
"Glenn won't release the children without my authorization," he remembers.  It occurs to him that at this moment, with Dean incapacitated, he's their commander.  "Two adults and a possible unknown number of children are locked somewhere on the second floor due to potential infection from a dead Croatoan near the stairs to the third floor."
Amanda swallows.  "Were any kids killed?"
"Yes," he answers, looking at the dismembered body only feet away; he wasn't fast enough to save them.  "Possibly very young.  Verify the salt line is unbroken between the second and third floor; knowing Dean, he salted the entire stairway just to be sure. I don't think anyone on the third floor knows for certain; don't tell them, not yet."
"There's a window facing the courtyard," she says after a moment, starting to the door.  "Tell Glenn I'm safe when you see him."
It doesn't take long; Glenn's face appears briefly before the window opens, leaning out with an expression somewhere between fear and relief; he doesn't know.  "Cas?"
"The attackers were neutralized.  Amanda will instruct you on what to do after consulting with Manuel," he answers, watching the relief spreading over Glenn's face followed by dawning horror when he takes in the courtyard for what appears to be the first time.  Good: he forgot he even needed to worry about that.  "Send Amanda back down and stay with the children until she returns.  Do not leave the room, do not open the door, and avoid the windows, if possible, until then."
Glenn's expression tells him that the last was a given: one look was enough.  "Got it.  Thanks, Cas."  He hastily closes the window, and Castiel tries to think of anything he may have missed.  It's several long minutes until Amanda emerges again, face blank, and he can guess what she was doing before she stops beside him.
"One Croat, five adults, and three kids on the first floor. Eight on the second by the stairs besides the Croat; one of the older kids, Una and--six more." He swallows; that's what he thought.  "Callie and Emmy said they have four kids with them.  Callie says they're all infected.  I marked the door before I came down."
"Dean said the admin building--"
"Saw it the first time, counted three: Manuel said that was all that were there today, I asked before I came back."  She jerks her head toward the exit.  "Now, time for you to go before Dean--"
"Tell Teresa the symbol is inactive; it needs to be cleansed, but it's not dangerous--at least, not right now.  No one should come in here other than those involved with the cleansing before it's finished.  I'll be sending help from Chitaqua when I arrive; they'll be ordered to report to Manuel and you."  Amanda waits, eyebrows raised.  "I think that's all, yes."
"Okay, now--"
"Croatoans remain infectious after death."  
"Seriously?" she bursts out.  "Not my first time at the care and disposal of Croat corpses rodeo here!  I'll be careful until--"
"Yes, but--" He stares at the body for a moment, thinking.  "Can you get one outside the quarantine perimeter without anyone noticing?  A demon would be better for this, but needs must."
Amanda frowns in confusion, then the blue eyes widen in understanding.  "Yeah, can do.  Training field's unoccupied: it'll be under the arsenal trailer, but tell whoever you send to check with me before they go get it."  The white noise outside the square rises briefly, and Castiel hears Alison's voice followed by Amanda's sudden smile.  "There's my signal," she says in satisfaction, jerking her head toward the eastern exit.  "Convenient having a psychic around.  Let's get him out of here."
Stage one begins less than twenty minutes from Ichabod; one hand curled around the back of Dean's neck, he steps on the accelerator more firmly and ignores the odometer.  No matter what it says, they're going far, far too slowly.
He tries not to think, but he does anyway; it's hard to stop.
Angels haven't changed since the beginning of time. Surround them with holy oil and light a match, they're trapped; if a person tells them no, they can't take their body for their own; when summoned, they can't help but obey; and when they're banished from this plane, they must leave.  The Host and their dogged adherence to prophecy, Lucifer and eons he spent waiting until he could put his plan in motion so he could win without a fight, and Castiel whiling away eternity contemplating the amoeba without irony, all because there was not, is not, could never be anything new, and Enochian has no word for 'boring'.  It desperately, desperately needs one.
"Amoebas," he tells Dean, hysterical laughter bubbling up from where sanity once dwelled.  In his lap, Dean stirs restlessly, turning his face into the blood-flecked cotton of Castiel's shirt with a sigh and falling still again.  "I suppose you had to be there.  You would have hated it."
An hour and a half from Ichabod, stage two shudders across Castiel's nerves, a repulsive sense of wrongness squirming toward the surface like maggots emerging from a putrid corpse, and he nearly drives off the road, black spots dancing before his eyes. 
Slowing to a stop, he jerks the jeep into park and leans against the steering wheel, fighting back the grief and rage, the discipline he never bothered to exercise for two and a half years slowly, painfully relearned in the wake of Dean's death and brought into practice, because he doesn't doesn't have time for this.
"Don't," he breathes against cracking plastic, "panic."
Concentrating on the steady warmth of Dean's breath against his stomach, the weight of his head on his lap, the slow beat of his pulse against his fingers, he methodically locks everything away but what he needs now.  To drive, for example.  And arrive in Chitaqua in one piece, also important.  With sanity intact.  All he needs is time.
Straightening, he wipes his eyes and flips the jeep into drive, checking both ways on the empty road before easing back onto the asphalt and flooring the gas pedal.  As the world whips by, he strokes Dean's hair back in apology.
"I just needed a moment to almost despair," he explains in a satisfactorily steady voice.  "It's over now."
Castiel blinks in surprise, glancing down at Dean sleeping the sleep of the sedated in his lap.  Still--as much as Dean can ever be--every third breath punctuated by faint snoring in arrhythmic accompaniment to the sound of the engine.  And yet.
"I wasn't actually being ironic," he says, fighting to keep his voice calm.  "I was very high but not stupid. I knew it the first time I saw you, I just thought it was too late.  All things must have a name, Chuck was right, and it did; I named it after you."
For faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things unseen: six sigils named in honor of an impossible man.
He sucks in a breath.  "There."
An army unseen but vast, its numbers beyond counting, has just picked up their swords.
Dean begins to stir just as the walls of Chitaqua come into sight, grunting in irritation before burying his face in Castiel's shirt with an unhappy whimper.
"Dean?"  
Stopping the jeep in the middle of the road, he reaches for Dean's face and sees the bright flush just before he feels a burst of heat against his palm.  For a long moment, he can't move, can't think, can't even breathe as Dean twists again, curling up into a tight ball as beneath Castiel's fingers, his skin grows steadily warmer, reaching one-oh-two point six-three-eight nine within two minutes, slowing but still climbing.
It might be chronic, Vera explained regretfully.  Any stress to his immune system could set it off, no way to tell.  We don't even know why he reacted like that.  It was a brownie bite.
He makes a mental note to tell Vera that Dean's immune system is performing spectacularly well: they certainly know how to use their swords, in any case.
"We'll start with a bath," he says giddily, thinking of Dean's charmingly bizarre conversations with sheep as he puts the jeep into drive.  "Just give me a few minutes and I'll run one for you.  It'll be fun."
Fortunately, most of Chitaqua is either occupied with their duties, on patrol, or--extremely likely--avoiding open spaces for fear of Cynthia.  Leaving the jeep on the far side of his cabin in a perfunctory attempt at subtlety, he deposits Dean on the bathroom floor with a blanket folded beneath him, still too drugged to do more than curl up in a tight, overheating ball of feverish hunter.  Kneeling beside him, Castiel checks one more time--the eight hour threshold has most likely passed and Dean's still at stage two, contagious but lacking cannibalistic tendencies--before stripping Dean of his remaining weapons and locking the bathroom door on his way out.  This shouldn't take long.
Emerging onto the porch, he watches David jog toward him, waving a cheerful greeting to match the wide smile spreading over his freckled face before he stops short, eyes widening as he takes in Castiel's current state.  Belatedly, it occurs to him he killed a great many Croats today and wasn't terribly careful regarding exposure, as he can't be infected.  Out of practice: he'll work on that.
"You probably shouldn't come any closer," he decides; good habits should be established immediately.  Now that he's thinking about it, he realizes how unsettlingly often he ends up with bloody socks, like now.  Dryer elves probably wouldn't take them even if their destiny didn't involve fire and a lot of it.
"Do you see me moving?"  The hazel eyes scanning Castiel as he visibly shifts to soldier.  "What happened?"
"There was a Croatoan attack on Ichabod," he answers, coming down the stairs as David mirrors him to keep a safe distance.  "The attack was concluded successfully, but Ichabod's casualties were still being assessed when we left.  Has Joseph returned yet?  Where's Melanie?  Her cabin?"
"No, yes, and fuck."  David matches his pace toward Melanie's cabin.  "Dean okay?"  The barely suppressed fear is unmistakable.
"Yes, but he sustained several mild injuries, so I brought him back here for treatment; Dolores had enough to do, and--I wanted to avoid possible infection to the wound."
David's mouth twitches: so that explanation worked. "Yeah, Vera lectured everyone she saw on secondary infections while he's in recovery before she left.  Twice."
"It will be several days before he can physically hunt me down to kill me," he murmurs as Melanie's cabin comes into view; he really must thank Vera when she returns.  Perhaps they could have a party for her and Jeremy: Dean would approve very much of a camp wide celebration, perhaps involving something barbecued.  "Alicia's returned?  An extra EMT would be of assistance to Ichabod.  Dolores's current staff will need help, and she knows what precautions to take to avoid exposure."
"Yeah, she came back this morning.  How many are we sending?"
"Everyone who can carry a gun."  David only nods, but his shoulders straighten in clear approval.  "Brief Alicia and have her pass the word; I expect everyone ready to leave in half an hour.  Then find Chuck and the other members of your team and report to Melanie's cabin; I have a special job for her when you get there, and she'll need her team's help."
"I thought you wanted something hard," David answers with a snort as they reach the steps, skipping back a step as he turns toward Alicia's cabin. "Fifteen on the outside."
Castiel realizes he's smiling as Melanie emerges onto the porch with a worried expression, already buckling on her belt.  "I'll hold you to it."
@@@@@@
--Day 135--

Dean comes to furious, unfortunately very lucid consciousness three hours past midnight, still lingering at stage two and immersed in a bathtub of cool--but not ice-filled--water.  A part of him was looking forward to his conversation with imaginary sheep: it was like spending time with Kellie, but with fewer crystals showing up in inconvenient places and finding very strangely shaped bruises the next day.
"What--" he gasps, pushing Castiel's hand away and flailing briefly.  One hundred and two, excellent: it's dropping again.  Leaning tiredly against the cool porcelain of the tub, Castiel sees absolutely no need to elucidate while Dean orients himself, looking around the bathroom with a confused expression, sweat and water-damp hair clinging to his forehead.   
"I'm in the bathroom," he says slowly, trying to focus on Castiel long enough to glare and achieving a credible if vague squint.  
"Yes," he agrees, leaning an elbow on the lip of the tub. "Three hours into a new day, in case that was your next question.  Is there anything else?"
There is, of course.  With Dean, there always is.  
"What happened?"  Leaning back in the tub, he frowns, oblivious to the cool of the water and his own goosebumps.  "Ichabod.  There was an attack."
"That was hours ago.  Technically, yesterday."  Resting his chin on one hand, he resigns himself to what will happen next.  The green eyes widen in memory, and jerking his right arm up, Dean ignores the knotted scar of his death-defying run in with a colony of brownies to focus on the scabbing bite in incredulous horror despite the fact it's covered by a layer of bandages and plastic wrap and he can't actually see it.
"Oh God.  I was--"
"Between eleven and fourteen hours ago, approximately," he interrupts, fighting back a yawn.  "Don’t be alarmed, but you're currently in stage two.  It's possible that you're contagious, but on the other hand, you remain uninterested in consuming human flesh.  The door is locked, and while I'm not visibly armed, it's only because you're unsettlingly good at acquiring other people's weapons and I can't risk you getting mine.  How are you feeling?"
Dean jerks upright with a splash of water he can't bring himself to care enough to avoid.  "I'm--"
"In stage two and feverish, though it's dropping again."  Closing his eyes, he feels for his bottle and shakes it to verify the contents before taking out two pills and dropping it back on the floor.  "If it helps, I'm not shooting up this time.  That won't continue past the forty-eight hour mark, in case that provides motivation for you.  I doubt it will take that long, however."
"What's going on?" Before he can answer, Dean becomes aware he's immersed in cold water, and to Castiel's amusement, that his teeth are chattering and have been through most of this conversation.  Wrapping his arms around his wet t-shirt clad body--a distractingly good look for him, because Castiel is very tired but not close to dead--he draws up his knees before he unleashes his most effective glare, only marginally lessened by the continued chattering of his teeth.  "Jesus, can I get out--wait, why I am in the bathtub?"
"Your home improvement efforts fixing the grout means it now leaks water much, much more slowly, and I don't know where the tub Vera acquired is."  That seems to silence Dean, temporarily at least, which gives him enough time to reach over and feel Dean's flushed forehead, pleased to note it's entered the lowest three digit range.  "Your temperature's dropping.  You can get out now." 
Stranding up, he dry swallows both pills on his way to the door and picks up two towels from the pile he prudently remembered to bring in here after stealing all he could find in the communal laundry room after everyone left for Ichabod.  There were a surprising number in the dryers, which tells him he's not the only one who hates doing laundry; perhaps this could be considered some kind of life lesson should anyone ask why they were taken.  Surely there's a life lesson that applies: he'll ask Alicia when she gets back, unless they're her towels, of course. They should definitely acquire more towels soon, in any case.  
Returning to the tub, he ignores Dean's continuing glare and helps him out onto the rug (also stolen, and quite nice; they may not get that back), briskly rubbing him with the smaller towel until he's simply very damp before wrapping the larger one around him and easing him onto the floor.  "How are you feeling?"
"Like shit," Dean snaps, huddling in the corner made by the wall and tub as he makes an attempt to bury himself in several feet of faded ochre terrycloth.  Castiel watches his maneuvering in fascination before it occurs to him that multiple towels and the blanket might be of assistance and goes to acquire them, turning on the space heater as well; it is rather cold in here.  Dean jerks them out of his hands immediately, and by the time he's seated himself again, Dean's achieved something like a very bad interpretation of a multi-colored cocoon, much like he does with blankets, but somehow, impossibly, even funnier.  "Like I'm gonna be eating people soon, so--" He breaks off, staring at him from the depths of a frayed mustard-yellow cowl, and Castiel quite literally can't look away.  "It's been eleven hours?"
"Between eleven and thirteen.  It's not definitive," he admits, briefly distracted by the sight of his own bare foot sliding over the wet tile floor.  "Except for the part where you're not progressing toward cannibalism, which I assure you is very new.  I'm not despairing, worried, drunk, or high, if that helps.  Unless you count on life, of course."
"That doesn't mean--"
"You said you trusted me," he interrupts.  "Was that just words so I'd feel better about performing an immediate execution on you or did you mean it?"
Dean peers out at him from the depths of his terrycloth hood, and Castiel files this memory away for later enjoyment.  "What're you doing, Cas?"
"That's not an answer."
"You still have a knife at your back.  Saw it when you were picking up the towels," Dean points out.  "You got your answer.  Now tell me what you're doing."
Reaching back, he locates the hilt and tugs it out, skidding it across the floor toward the doorway and ignoring Dean's indignant protest.  "No one dies from a brownie bite."
"Yeah, I heard.  What the fuck does that have to do with--"
"No one dies from it.  Most people never even know they're infected, it's that minor.  It was too different for your body to recognize immediately, because this world was too different, which being you, required a dramatic response." Dean's swollen, red-rimmed eyes try to narrow, which makes him look extremely funny.  "Not too much for you to adapt of course, but enough so that it took time for you to do it.  Human bodies do this, given sufficient time.  They're made to do it.  You're made to do that, to adapt.  It's your--purpose, if you had one other than to exist, multiply, and be fruitful."
Dean's teeth seem to finally decide to stop chattering.  "Get to the point."
"Croatoan is one hundred percent infectious, it affects every single human being on this planet in exactly the same way, in the same time general time period with an eight hour threshold, with the exact sequence of stages of infection and with the exact same result, without exception.  There's no variation except in compensation for the mass of the victim infected, and that's predictable as well."
"Right, that's…." He pauses, licking his lips.  "Interesting, what?"
"That," he announces, "isn't natural."
"You think?" Dean bursts out incredulously.  "Not natural, demon virus, really--"
"It's not even alive, not by any definition of the word, because what is living, what is of Creation, is subject to the same rules of existence: to be alive, there must be change.  It's a construct of theoretically-organic material, a parody of life, but it's not and cannot be alive.  It's--a set of instructions given form and power, but that's all it is.  Microsoft could have written it, and in this case, could have actually done a better job of it than Lucifer."
"Cas?"  
Taking a deep breath at the wary note in Dean's voice, he slumps back against the tub, making himself focus. 
"Lucifer did understand this much about Creation--about humanity," he continues, aware of Dean's strict attention.  "The human genome is in a constant state of change--you have no idea how much, you won't for centuries, and new mutations are occurring all the time, some discrete and some that can be passed on to your offspring.  He couldn't afford a single mistake in making this; he had to cover the fullest potential of human mutation as it was, as it is, and as it will be, and you may not be aware of this, but that information among angels is common knowledge."
"Of course it is," Dean agrees glumly.  "Best way to kill us, really popular topic."
"Your entire genetic range--all you were, are, and will be--had to be in Croatoan before it was released, because once it began to spread among the population, all it would need to be stopped was one resistant human body." Dean frowns, terrycloth falling in loose folds around his shoulders.  "Just one person is all it would take, a human body with the correct genetic makeup to create the exact antibodies needed to destroy it.  Scientists could then have a blueprint for a vaccine, and unlike those associated with a true virus, one hundred percent immunity would be achieved and there would be no possibility of mutation in the interim.  Not just to Croatoan; it's probable that immunity would extend to any constructed virus he devised afterward.  Unlike my Father, unlike you, angels can't create, only mimic what is already done.  He had one chance to get this right, because it wouldn't work again."
Dean nods slowly.  "So it had to have everything he knew about humanity in there from the start.  Missing anything and it might not work."
"He was also trying to make a terrible philosophical point, which is never a good basis for your method of conquest: perfection and unchanged versus the imperfect in constant flux.  Which is why he turned this into an all or nothing without knowing it; he couldn't imagine the possibility of losing.  How could he, when all of human evolution was known to him and placed within that virus?"
Dean's eyes narrow suspiciously.  "You're enjoying this."
"His lack of a work ethic offends my sensibilities," he agrees.  "He almost did it, too.  You almost can't blame him for missing it; even prophecy didn't have a contingency plan to deal with a human appearing from an entire different world."  Dean's mouth falls open in belated understanding.  "Someone whose immune system was surprised unto near death by an infected brownie bite.  Someone with a single difference on the genetic level caused by temporal displacement." Castiel smiles at him.  "Something new."
"You're fucking with me."  
"I'm not a virologist," he starts, grinning helplessly at the return of Dean's glare, "nor am I conversant with Lucifer's truly abysmal grasp of the scientific method, but while you're close, it wasn't programmed for close, because close--"
"--isn't perfect."  Dean drops his head back against the wall with an audible thump. 
"The brownie infection that lingers in your immune system reacts to stress; it wouldn't have had anything to react to unless, unlike every other human being on earth, yours detected Croatoan.  It can't hide from you, you're killing it faster than it can replicate and spread, and it can't fight back, because it doesn't know how." He smiles into Dean's eyes.  "He never thought he'd have to fight to win.  You weren't supposed to even step on the field."
Dean takes a breath, eyes naked.  "You're sure--you're sure that's what's happening now?"
"I know it is."  Dean looks away, shoulders slumping slightly as the tension melts away.  He hadn't expected that; at best, he hoped for a suspension of disbelief, a willingness to wait; at worst, the unpleasant necessity of restraints until his supposition was proven correct.  "You believe me."
Dean frowns.  "What?"
"You believe me," he repeats.
"You get I understood maybe ten, twenty words of that, right?"  Castiel nods, still bewildered.  "But you're saying--correct me here if I'm wrong--I’m going to survive this and not as a--"
"Living representation of the sum of all humanity's fears."
"Yeah, that." His eyes narrow suspiciously.  "That's where you were going with this, right?"
Belatedly, he nods.  "Yes.  You'll survive and not as a mindless monster that devours human flesh for pleasure."
"Then yeah, I believe you." Leaning back against the wall, Dean closes his eyes, the boneless slump beginning to be in danger of becoming a slow slide.  "You asked me if I trusted you.  You didn't have to knock me out until you had proof.  You saying it is proof enough for me."  Sighing, his eyes slit open.  "Can I get some sleep or--"
"Yes, of course." Dean nods tiredly, looking content to fall asleep sitting up, which can only lead to an unpleasant semi-concussed awakening when he makes painful contact with the floor.  Before he can consider the consequences of acting on impulse, Castiel reaches over, tugging him unresistingly from his corner. Dean's eyes open long enough to convey irritation before half-turning and letting himself slump bonelessly into Castiel's lap, sighing heavily as he shuts his eyes.  
"Rest," he murmurs, touching Dean's forehead, skin pleasantly cool against his fingers. "You have between an hour and an hour in a half until it begins again if the pattern I've observed so far is any indication."
"So two weeks of this and I might survive?" Dean yawns tiredly, tugging the towels around him before rolling onto his side, breath puffing against the damp material of Castiel's t-shirt, and he wishes he'd thought to bring in another blanket.  As Dean curls closer, he firmly reminds himself not to take personally; he's probably a vast improvement on the floor.  Not as cold, not as hard, and far, far less wet.  "Sounds great."
"It's a construct, so replication isn't based on biological rules, but math, and Croatoan isn't nearly as complicated as a true virus.  Between eleven and thirteen hours before you're no longer contagious, and thirty-six until the virus is eradicated entirely.  And  you'll survive, of course."
Dean nods in satisfaction, closing his eyes with a contented sigh.  "Wake me for the next ice bath."

--Day 136--

Exactly forty-eight hours from initial exposure, Dean no longer exhibits any sign of infection.  A brief check in the infirmary's small, makeshift lab, using the procedures Vera taught him, he confirms that Dean's blood is entirely free of any sign of the Croatoan virus.
After cleaning and sterilizing the lab, he returns to the cabin with two samples of Dean's blood, along with his notes, and locks them away before asking if Dean wants his grilled cheese sandwich with crust or not.
He doesn't want crust but would like another blanket.
Amanda's terse initial report, conveyed verbally to David at Ichabod's quarantine perimeter on their arrival, was by necessity limited to the immediate deaths during the actual attack, with less exact numbers regarding injury.  On her return just before dusk with the last of the militia who went to Ichabod's assistance, she submitted her final report on the attack on Ichabod as well as conveyed Alison's message on Ichabod's status and her thanks for their assistance in enforcing her quarantine order on the town.
The meeting, attended by the teams who returned from Ichabod, was notable in both its brevity and the almost perfect silence broken only by the brief verbal responses to Dean's increasingly careful questions.  In Amanda's initial report, none of Chitaqua's militia were killed or injured, but Ichabod wasn't so fortunate; three of Amanda's recruits were killed during the attack; Ichabod's patrol, one; civilians, fifty-eight, including the ten children who were killed outright at the daycare; Croatoan bodies recovered, four-hundred and seventeen.  The final version included the addition of one of Amanda's students, one member of Ichabod's patrol, and an additional seventeen civilians, including Emmy, Callie, and four children at the daycare, the cause of death due to injuries accrued during the attack that proved mortal.
It's polite fiction; no one survives injuries sustained during an attack by Croatoans. 
The math of Croatoan, as he told Dean, is unchanging, and its communicability one hundred percent; until Dean, there was never a single exposure that didn't end in manifestation or death.  All that could be offered was a clean, easy end to life while they were still themselves, their minds and bodies their own, before Croatoan manifested and their lives ended in a protracted nightmare that only began in madness.  Chitaqua's residents performed that service more times than he can count on careless people wandering into the cities and rescued far too late, stumbled upon during patrol, within Chitaqua's walls to more than one of their own; it was mercy, always.  No one who had watched a human being succumb to Croatoan would ever believe anything else.
They never did this before, however: stood helplessly outside the quarantine line for a town whose people they were beginning to know and listened to the sounds of weeping adults, screaming children, and the sudden muffled silence that descended without warning but not without cause; they held their guns at ready as they tracked the perimeter to shoot anyone who tried to cross it, and it was only Ichabod's internal procedures that assured they didn't have to.
Amanda never did this before: waited helplessly within the quarantine line with the people she was given to protect and saw both the bodies of those who already died and the ones for whom death was merely delayed.  She never stood over the bodies of her own students or sat with last one for the endless, too-short hours that remained of their lives.  In Chitaqua, mercy was performed by team leaders or Dean himself and she only stood witness; she was never the one who must be merciful, to take their lives while they were still their own, before Croatoan could take it from them.
After the others leave to dim the memory of Ichabod in any way, every way they can, Dean drops a bottle of Eldritch Horror on the coffee table and three glasses, matching Amanda for every shot, listening to her eventually talk about those long hours after they left.
She led one of the teams collecting Croatoan bodies for examination, pictures taken of each monster who was once a human being, a husband or wife, a father or mother, a daughter or son, before they were carefully wrapped for burning.  Habit, Alison told her: a photographic record against a day none of them truly believed would ever come, a chance for those who lived to one day finally discover the fate of their missing and mourn their dead. 
It's late evening, the chill of the night closing around them, partially blocked by the heavy draperies over the door that Dean summoned from the depths of inventory (or more likely, told James to look for during his trips to Kansas City).
"We do that as well," Castiel says into the lingering quiet, realizing at Dean's surprised expression that he never told him that.  "Chuck is backing up the records for Chitaqua with the external hard drives we took from the military."
"Good idea," Dean agrees, pouring each of them another shot and watching Amanda grimly throw hers back before she continues.
Ichabod's dead were gathered in one of the buildings adapted for that purpose.  On the first floor, their bodies carefully placed for identification without risking infection to family members too distraught by grief to remember to care.  On the second floor, the infected marked out the hours until they joined the dead, forbidden only physical contact but never company, never the comfort of family and friends, sharing those final moments before they said goodbye.
"Cyanide, usually, after a sedative," Amanda tells them dully, taking the shot Dean helpfully offers.  "They--they asked me first if I knew how to shoot someone up," here, she smiles unhappily at Castiel, "and I told them, yeah, I had a friend showed me how to do it right.  Jason told me he was honored--and then he went to sleep, and when they got to the bed to check him, he was gone.  We did the burn at dusk after quarantine ended.  I brought Jason's--" she stopped, taking a shuddering breath before continuing.  "Alison gave me a copy of the town's records on him and Jules and Maggie and Finn to add to Chuck's records.  Pics, too.  They were gonna be ours, so--"
"They were ours," Dean says firmly, looking at Castiel for a long moment before filling their glasses from the second bottle. "First thing tomorrow."
"Her--Maggie's sister--came to talk to me after the burning.  Asked if she could--could take her place.  She'd do the extra work to catch up, anything I wanted, she said…" Amanda's eyes glaze, mouth trembling.  "It's a tradition in the town--two years, but they sure as hell had plenty of opportunity to make them--that friends or family take the duties after if they could.  Too many jobs, not enough people, everyone had to do everything; I guess we're part of it now.  Jason's sister, Finn's uncle, and Jules' stepbrother showed up this morning with Vicky ready to go.  Nights, weekends, holidays, whatever it took to get them up to speed.  Cleared with Alison that morning, and I sure as hell would have appreciated the warning…." She trails off, mouth tightening.
"You gonna take them?" Dean asks softly.
"If they're able to do it," Castiel says before she can answer, "there's no reason to refuse."
"Is that an order?" she asks challengingly, almost knocking over her glass.  "Train them up and send them to die before they're ready to--they weren't ready. I saw Maggie go down, a week, three days, she'd have been faster, the fucker would have missed her.  Reflexes need time, she was almost there already--they all could have survived this, this was nothing, a fucking video game!  Shoot, get out of their way, shoot again, it's easy, just don't let them get too close, don't let them gang up on you!"  She swallows hard, eyes blank.  "Once you know, it's easy.  I should have--"
"Once you know, it's easier," he corrects her, wondering why Dean is looking between them.  "They're still faster than we are, stronger, and not mindless enough to be predictable.  That's why--"
"They weren't ready!" she shouts, coming clumsily to her knees, catching herself on the coffee table before she overbalances.  "They didn't know enough, I didn't teach them enough--"
"You won't."  
Dean sucks in an audible breath in the silence that follows, but Amanda stares back at him, wet eyes dark.  "What?"
"You won't teach them enough.  Even when you tell them they're ready, they aren't and you know it.  Three months--hunters had to learn over years, often by trial and error, but we fit it into three months.  It was a compromise," he says, thinking of those months with Amy and Dean and the other hunters.  "We had to choose what was most important when all of it was important, what could be taught or learned without experience and what could only be learned by doing.  The arguments…." He pauses, remembering listening to Dean and Amy, Bobby and Lissa and Byron and Doug, experienced hunters offering their services and screaming each other down as they tried to create something that would work, always work, that would buy a new hunter the time they needed to survive long enough to gain experience.  "It was a compromise, three months, not six, not a year; we didn't have time, and neither did the world.  You have three months to teach them what they need to know to survive long enough to learn the rest."
"It's that easy?" Amanda demands, voice shaking.  "When you trained us, that was just a given; three months, now get out there and deal, good luck with that, now ready for the next group?"
"Amanda--" Dean murmurs, but he's looking at Castiel.
"Did you even remember any of us when you were done?  Other than who you were fucking, I assume that got through."  Amanda's voice hardens.  "I can't do that, I can't just--"
"You have to," he says calmly.  "Or did you think it would be simply a matter of being admired by your students for your abilities and--" He catches her punch before it connects.  Dean hisses, but mercifully, he stays where he is.  "This is what you can do," he continues, holding her fist effortlessly.  "You can teach them what you know, all you can in those three months you have them.  That is what you'll do, because there's no one else who can."
He can almost see Amanda running through various scenarios on what to do next: he knows everything about her, her weaknesses and her strengths, trained her ruthlessly to use the latter to compensate for the former, and how to use both to her advantage.  She was a very good hunter when she came here, but now, he can think of few that could match her, and even fewer that could hope to defeat her.  
Jerking back, she almost overbalances again before getting unsteadily to her feet and looking around a little desperately.  "Bathroom's through there," Dean says helpfully, correctly interpreting her expression and pointing toward the bedroom door.  "To the right."
"Thanks."  Not looking at either one of them, she crosses to the door with the careful movements of someone far more drunk than they thought they were when they were sitting.  Once the door's closed behind her, Dean takes her shot empty glass and sets with his own on the far side of the table.  
"Okay, question," Dean says.  "Am I supposed to do anything about her attacking you just now?"
"That wasn't an attack," he answers, tearing his gaze from the closed bedroom door.  "She needs someone to fight.  If she were sober, I would oblige her.  She can't risk that with anyone else, especially now."  Dean raises his eyebrows in mute query.  "Her judgment is impaired, but drunk or sober, her reflexes are excellent.  That combination simply means she won't know when to stop, and I'd rather not risk injury to either of us before she wears herself out."
"She really could hurt you?" Dean asks incredulously.  "I mean, without you letting her?"
"Strength and speed are excellent tools, but they're only tools, and like any tool, they can be used against me.  It's one of the advantages of being trained by a former angel; I didn't need to simply tell them that, I could show them.  She probably couldn't kill me--not without a great deal of preparation and some luck--but a hunter learns to set the bar to the best possible, not the ideal.  And right now, I'm fairly certain the bar would be something requiring painkillers."  And possibly a splint.
Dean leans an elbow on the coffee table, glancing at the bedroom door for a long moment before jerking his chin at Castiel.  "Okay, you're up.  Go."
"Go?" he echoes.  "Where?"
Dean sighs, rubbing the bridge of his nose.  "Cas, she didn't come here to tell us what we could have gotten from the report she gave us."  He studies Castiel's bewildered expression for a moment and sighs again.  "Jesus, okay.  Cas, she needs her instructor, that taught her to do this, because he's the only goddamn one here who knows what she's going through now.   That would be you."  He points toward the door.  "Go."
Hesitantly, Castiel gets to his feet.  Amanda's reaction he'd expected and prepared for, but this….  "I don't know what she needs me to say."
"I don't think she cares what you say," Dean answers implacably.  "She cares that you're there at all.  Go. You'll figure it out."
Amanda's slumped on the foot of the bed, head buried in her hands behind a cascade of blonde hair.  Carefully closing the door behind him, he tries to think of what to say that would be of help.  She knows all of it now; earlier than he hoped she'd have to, but to say it would be better to have happened later is only in the delay.  
She doesn't look up, even when he tentatively sits on the other side, but the tension seems to change, though he can't tell if it's for better or worse.  
"I should assign you laps around the camp," he offers into the pregnant silence.  "Why didn't you flip the coffee table first to distract me?  It's probable in the confusion that you would have landed that punch."
She turns her head, swollen eyes narrowing.  "Still had half a bottle of Eldritch Horror sitting there.  Didn't want to waste it."
His judgment tonight may also be compromised; that seems like a perfectly logical reason.
"You know, back then, I didn't ask why you kept me back when Vera and the rest were cleared for duty. Or Mark," she adds belatedly.  "Not then, anyway.  No one else knew either; everyone else got the three months and good luck, but--Vera didn't believe me, that it could be worse than three months of Castiel on the training field.  Get a full two months of his personal attention, then we talk about hard.  My parents trained me from the moment I could walk, and I was doing jobs with them before I started high school, but that was like playtime or something.  After, when Dean told me I was taking over evaluations for Chitaqua's militia, keep them up to spec, I thought that was the reason.  I was your way to opt-out for good."
"It was very convenient," he agrees.  "I almost wish I thought of it earlier.  It would have saved me a very protracted argument about the needs of the militia."
Surprised, she straightens.  "Back then--Dean wasn't recruiting.  I mean, he wouldn't if you didn't do the training.  If you were teaching me to train more hunters--"
"I didn't tell him that."  He thinks of Dean in the next room, who suffers enough for what he sees as his predecessors sins as if they were his own.  This one he can't add to it, not when the past is so easy to forget, to blur, overwritten with the actions of the man who currently bears that name.  "At the time, there was no reason to do so; Dean didn't plan to recruit again in the near future.  It might also be accurate to say that I didn't admit it to myself, which might seem hard to do, but I'd had a great deal of practice."
She nods slowly, waiting.
"I was instructed specifically to train hunters," he says.  "It was my--purpose, I suppose.  There was no reason to pass on those specific skills to you, but before I met you, I never wanted to.  You weren't the best of that group; Mark was far better, and Debra was almost disturbingly prodigal even for a hunter, but--"
"Debra died, yeah."
"No."  She frowns uncertainly.  "The difference between you and them was that you could be more.  In a field where the competition is very high, you could be the best I'd ever trained."
"Me."  Her eyes widen suddenly.  "You trained hunters before Chitaqua.  That's what you meant about compromising." 
"Yes.  Dean was my first instructor, but not my last.  One of them--the last, who took it upon herself to make sure that I could do this job--set a standard far higher than that required of anyone else.  Not just because of my abilities, but because I wasn't human, and she didn't trust me to do it without--" He breaks off, not sure how to explain.  "I didn't understand what she meant, and in the end, I think it was more in hope than anything that she said that I had performed to her satisfaction."
"She didn't think you were good enough?" Amanda's incredulity is almost palpable.
"To teach hunters to survive, yes," he answers slowly.  "Her concern was why I was doing it.  She said there was a difference between doing this because it was my purpose and doing it because it was something--something that I needed to do. Because I wanted to.
"Dean knew this would be my last class, and I agreed to do it without any other goal than to train you all to the best of my abilities.  Meeting you and then Debra's death changed that; it was the first time I understood what she meant.  The very last time I would ever teach, and in an exercise in irony, I not only wanted to do it, but had a student with untapped potential, one who could very possibly learn, after those three months, what before I'd only taught to the most experienced hunters who'd been approved by my instructor first.  And one who would not only be able to pass on those skills to others, but wouldn't be able to stop herself from doing it because she needed to do it, too."
"How did you--"
"By the third day, you were already sneaking out to the training field at night to drill Vera and Joseph because you knew they needed more practice."  
Amanda's mouth drops open.  "Did Vera tell you--"
"Of course not," he answers, biting back a smile at her expression.  "I watched you work with them."
"You watched?"
"Having to limit my substance abuse while I was teaching left me with a surprising amount of free time," he says.  "I appreciated the entertainment a great deal."
Amanda gapes at him.
"When Dean told me you had started a separate evening class in Ichabod, he was concerned that you were stretching yourself too thin.  I explained he shouldn't worry unless you started another midnight tutorial in addition to that."
"I checked the training field," she says faintly.  "Where the hell…."
"I've had all of time to learn to hide."  She makes a face before smiling weakly.  "It wasn't particularly unexpected after watching you in class.  You knew what you were all training to do, and you wanted everyone to be able to do it up to standard without exception.  What you didn't know then--and I felt no need to inform you of it--was that the first week was evaluative.  I use it to discover as much as possible about those I instruct, not only what they already know, but how they learn and what they'll need.  Supplementary instruction would be provided after that, but between your efforts and everyone's utter horror of the unknown consequences of failure, your class did the work of three weeks in one.  Thank you for that.  The instruction in hostile dryads isn't standard; I had to come up with that when I realized we had two weeks left and why not."
"Oh."  Amanda half-turns on the bed to face him.  "Debra said something like that, but I wasn't sure."
"Debra was right," he agrees.  "But she could have easily been wrong, and considering how good she was, she could afford to believe it.  You couldn't afford it, because you weren't thinking of yourself."
Amanda's expression flickers.  "Debra wasn't--"
"This isn't a judgment of her as a person; Dean instructed hunters at one time, but he didn't feel a particular burning desire to do it when it wasn't driven by the personal.  If Vera had asked, Debra doubtless would have drilled her, but Vera didn't have to ask you, because after three days of training, you knew she needed more help, and your first instinct was to do something about it."
She nods slowly, looking at the floor for several moments.  "You meant me to do this."
"You meant to do it," he answers quietly.  "I only taught you how.  The standard my instructor set for me, I set for you, and you exceeded it far beyond my expectations."  Her shoulders hunch.  "You get three months, but that's all you have; within that time, you teach them what they have to know so they can survive what can only be learned by experience.  You can and you will, because you made yourself fit to do it; if you weren't, I wouldn't have taught you how."
When she lifts her head, the blue eyes are tear-bright, streaking her cheeks in shimmering silver lines.  "And losing them?  That's gotta be experienced?"
"I couldn't teach you that."  He thinks of Luke for a moment, of Debra and Risa, of the names of everyone who passed through Chitaqua's walls in a litany, added to those who went before them, and slowly, uncertain, he moves closer to her.  That seems right; she turns immediately, burying her face against his shoulder with a strangled sound, and all at once, the tension breaks into quiet, heartbroken sobs.  Carefully, he wraps an arm around her, surprised at the loosening in his own chest, something he hadn't even known he still carried, had carried for so long.
Feeling her arms wrap around him, too, offering the same comfort, he takes a deep breath and shuts his eyes.
When he comes back out, the coffee table is cleaned of the excesses of the evening, and Dean's slumped in the middle of the couch, one foot on the coffee table, reading one of the journals with desultory interest.  His head comes up immediately as Castiel shuts the door behind him, setting it aside.  "She okay?"
"She fell asleep," he answers.  "I promised the sheets had been changed recently."  He takes a deep breath. "I don't want her to--feel alone tonight."
"Good call."  Dean's mouth curves faintly before he reaches out, patting the space beside him.  Still feeling unsettled, he takes the space and the offer of one half of the blanket draped over Dean's lap, settling his feet on the coffee table, and with the addition of the warmth of Dean's shoulder against his own, he feels less uncertain, more--whatever this is.  A coffee cup materializes as if from nowhere, and taking it, he considers the possibility that Dean is actually a wizard.
"How are you?" Dean asks quietly, picking up his own as Castiel tests the temperature--still hot--raising an eyebrow at his surprise.  "Please, you think I don't know that look?  Sat with Jo and Sam after serious shit went down; it ain't easy to bear witness, especially when it's someone you care about.  Bobby did it for me, too, though…" He wrinkles his nose.  "Anyway--you okay?"
Taking a drink, he considers the question.  "I don't know if I--helped."
"You did," Dean says positively, taking a sip from his own mug--still full, Castiel notes in surprise.  "She felt okay complaining about our sheets?  You got it right."  He cocks his head, smiling at him.  "Cas, you couldn't do it wrong.  She needed you; being you was all you had to do to get it right."
He stares at the still surface of his coffee, aware of Dean's attention despite the fact he's gazing into the distance--the wall, from direction--and wonders what he's waiting for.  After several long moments, Dean turns in place, bracing an arm on the back of the couch.  
"Tell me."
"What?" he asks, not entirely truthfully.
"Three months."  Dean raises his eyebrows.  "It's always three months, you said."
"An advantage of an angel being indoctrinated into the training process," he says wryly.  "I took my instruction very literally.  It's one of the reasons Dean and Amy thought I would be an adequate instructor; when the final model was approved, they taught it to me first and supervised my first class.  It was harder for the other hunters to argue when we already had the first group successfully taught using it, and they couldn't argue with me to change anything, since I wouldn't deviate from my instructions."  Dean nods, taking another drink, and after a moment, he realizes what Dean wants to ask.  "You want to know why Debra was put on patrol before she finished training."
Dean hesitates, studying him intently, before setting his cup down on the coffee table. "Was it Dean's order?"
"No."  Despite the warmth of the mug, his hands are numb with cold.  "It was mine."
Dean waits, sipping his coffee.
"We were--for a variety of reasons--running a skeleton patrol," Castiel continues flatly.  "A recent fight in North Dakota meant we had too many people on either limited or very restricted duty.  One of the regular patrol managed to sprain their ankle very badly during a routine check of Wichita, and we couldn't pull anyone to take their place.   Everyone is trained to work in teams, and going out with one less, while not necessarily dangerous, wasn't encouraged.  Dean asked me, since we had three hunters in this class, if one of them could be temporarily assigned to that patrol team."
"Asked?" Dean asks skeptically.
"My agreement to instruct Dean's hunters came with conditions," he explains.  "Among them was that my authority wouldn't be challenged as long as they were in training.  This was my class, the first that answered to no one but me." He searches Dean's face warily but sees only understanding. "So yes, he had to ask."
Dean's mouth twitches.  "So when he asked, you agreed."
"There was no reason for me to refuse.  It was both temporary and mind-numbingly routine; at the time, due to the efforts of the military, the threat was believed partially contained, so the patrol's only duty was to check the perimeter for any potential breaches."  Not looking at Dean, he takes a breath.  "Also--and this was possibly a factor--several of the militia, being off-duty and therefore with far too much time on their hands, had been observing training.  Apparently, some of them didn't see why I insisted all of them must complete the full three months before they were allowed to go on duty and shared that information with the class."
Dean snorts softly.  "Armchair quarterbacks.  That's--"
"I recognize the reference," he says, belatedly smiling and nodding politely in emphasis.  "For most of them, it was a non-issue; after a week, they knew very well what they didn't know.  For Mark, it was less clear; for Amanda, I'm not sure, but it could have been because she was far too busy trying to single-handedly assure the entire class passed each morning evaluation, so she didn't have time to feel insulted."
"So she's always been like that."
"Even more now than then," he agrees, eyes fixed on the rim of his cup.
"Teacher's pet," Dean mocks gently, shoulder nudging his.  "Blue-blackest of them all."
"I'm almost sure she's forgiven me for that."
Dean nods.  "And Debra?"
He licks his lips.  "Debra was the best of that class, and better than some of those currently on duty.  She felt it was a waste of her time to be instructed again in what she already knew, and as she was very outgoing, she was already friendly with many of Chitaqua's members, including Erica."
"Especially the ones that told her she was too awesome to waste time with that training bullshit."  Dean shrugs cynically.  "Just a guess."
"I wouldn't know," he answers carefully.  "We never spoke outside of training."
"Now there's a surprise."  Dean sighs noisily.  "Don't tell me--one of them told her about the position on patrol and she volunteered before you even got a chance to think about it."
"Erica told her; she and Debra became very close very quickly.  When I arrived the next morning, Debra told me she had already went to Dean to volunteer, and he'd agreed."  
Dean frowns.  "I thought you said--"
"Dean asked me during the noon break the day before," Castiel continues.  "Several people were listening, and I assumed by the time everyone returned, they'd all know.  I couldn't take the risk that the wrong one would volunteer first and require me to refuse.  Dean would want to know why."
"Who…." He sucks in a breath.  "Amanda.  You didn't want her to volunteer."
"I didn't want any of them to volunteer, but Debra was the best of them," he answers slowly.   "She was the obvious choice to anyone who had been observing the class, but Dean hadn't had time due to his other responsibilities.  It was much easier to assure that Amanda simply didn't have the opportunity to volunteer."
"What happened?"
"I invited Dean to watch the class for the afternoon and assured that Debra was paired with Amanda," he answers.  "Debra could usually beat her, and that day, knowing Dean was watching, she was very motivated to do just that.  Dean suggested Debra, I agreed should she volunteer, and Amanda--who was somewhat unhappy after spending several hours being enthusiastically beaten by Debra and rightly blamed me for it--asked her then-roommate to distract me and stole some of my vicodin so she could still have her midnight tutorial."
Dean bites back a laugh.  "How'd she convince her roommate to do it?"
"We were both sleeping with her," he explains, and watches, bemused, as Dean loses the fight against laughter, burying his head against the back of the couch.  "Joan could be extremely distracting when she wanted to be.  I bore her no ill-will; that evening was certainly worth it."
After several moments, Dean sobers, though his cheeks are still flushed with hot color.  "You blame yourself for what happened to Debra?"
"No, of course not.  Debra was the best choice.  That doesn't change the fact that of the two of them, Amanda was the one I wasn't willing to lose.  The sin wasn't in commission but intention, I suppose.  I wouldn't change it, if that's what you mean."
"But?"
His thoughts circle restlessly; even after all this time, he's not satisfied with the answer, possibly because he never asked himself the question. "Amanda--all of them--I wanted to teach them.  It was the first time I understood the reason I was willing to learn to do this, and it was the last time I'd ever do it.  I'm not sure that class noticed any benefit from it, but I enjoyed it very much, and Amanda's supplementary and surreptitious instruction helped far more than I expected.  That wasn't in the model," he adds thoughtfully.  "We never had time for experimentation once we had it working, and we found out very quickly that choosing someone with the ability to instruct was as important as the model."
"Something new to while away the time until the end of the world," Dean says, mouth quirking.  "Kept yourself entertained?"
"Drug-fueled orgies can happen at any time, but--" He shakes his head.  "I couldn't think of a reason not to see what happened with them.  When I started instructing Amanda and Mark after training ended, other members of their class and even some of the others would volunteer their time off-duty to give Amanda and Mark a class to work with after I taught them something that wasn't in the three month curriculum so I could observe their method of instruction and make corrections.  I made things up from my own experience, which is why one of them knows a form of combat exclusively involving knives used only by a very small cult in ancient Mesopotamia roughly six thousand years ago."
"Alicia."
"She has a natural affinity for bladed weapons--which is why her and Dean's breakup was stressful for everyone involved." He smiles in memory.  "Alicia's the only person I ever met who, like me, prefers blades; it was a very enjoyable way to spend the evenings.  She works regularly with Amanda even now to keep in practice.  During the months after her separation from Dean, she practiced a great deal."
"Would this be when you also instructed them in the skill of stoned combat?" Dean asks thoughtfully.
"It was very late," he answers obliquely, wondering uneasily just how much they've told him.  It wasn't a secret then, exactly--he certainly didn't make any comments to give that impression--but in Chitaqua there were few secrets, and the best kept ones were always the ones hiding in plain sight.  Risa was a participant on occasion, and he assumed her promotion made her more determined to improve her skills, which was probably true--considering what she knew of the other team leaders, she would have been motivated by self-preservation as well.  She was also, he remembers suddenly, Amanda's other roommate then.  "Due to my schedule, I didn't have time for much recreational activity," he continues, wondering why he's thinking about this now.  "It seemed like a good idea at the time.  And that suggestion, by the way, was Vera's."
"Not actually surprised," Dean offers, but there's an odd, speculative expression on his face, and Castiel wonders what he's thinking.  "You were having fun, weren't you?"
"I think plausible deniability to anyone but myself ended with the Etruscan drinking songs," he agrees.  "Even I can't remember how I tried to justify that as a necessary part of training.  I wanted to teach Amanda and Mark, but hedonism can also be expressed practically.  I enjoyed it.  I didn't want to stop quite yet." He looks at Dean for a moment.  "So I trained them both to do something I never planned to let them actually do--much less tell them the reason they were learning it--and made sure they were far too exhausted to ask me why.  It worked very well."
"That's why you pulled them from duty when Joe started negotiations," Dean says in amusement.  "You weren't just refreshing them.  You had to actually tell them."  He chuckles quietly.  "Jesus, I would have loved to hear that conversation."
"Fortunately, they took it in stride," he admits, remembering Amanda's carefully blank expression.  "Both of them had been in the field long enough that after observing them, I could add instruction in what before it was too dangerous for me to teach without Grace to protect us both.  I was drilled very thoroughly to do it with very experienced hunters for that eventuality, but it's been years since then, and reflex--as Amanda rightfully pointed out--needs time to develop, and it takes time to relearn them as well.  It's one of the most important parts of training, especially since very few are naturally gifted, but with time, anything can be taught.  I assure you, constant monotonous drilling will do the job for anyone, even the most clumsy, and you've met Joseph."
Dean laughs softly. "He really was that bad?"
"Terrible. He tripped over his own feet, and sometimes, he wasn't actually moving when it happened.  However, the earnest desire to learn--and Amanda's midnight tutorials--assured that he could see his own progress and kept him motivated to continue.  She still works with him and Vera regularly, as well as the others here, and when I told Dean to put her in charge of evaluations, she could make it an order if they refused regular practice."  He realizes abruptly that he's rambling; it's only when Dean takes the cup away that he realizes his hands are shaking too badly to get to his mouth, skin sticky.  "I don't…."
"Okay, yeah."  Setting the cup aside, Dean regards him for a long minute before an arm goes around his shoulders, pulling him into gratefully into the solid warmth of Dean's body.  Distantly, he can feel Dean's soothing murmurs, though the words stubbornly refuse to resolve into anything he can understand, chin resting on top of his head in another point of warmth.  "I get it."
"After all this time," he breathes against Dean's shirt, "she came to me for this.  Why would she need me?  I don't understand it, I gave her no reason--when I was done with them, I--how did she put it--"
"Get out there and good luck?" Dean murmurs helpfully.
"I don't understand humans."
"Like the love of God," Dean says with what sounds suspiciously like relish, "we passeth all understanding."
"That's a terrible adaptation."
"Yet true."  One hand smoothes up the length of his back.  "Weird about life, when you start actually living it.  Sometimes, it sucks, but sometimes, it just wonders why it took you so long to catch up."
@@@@@@
--Day 138--

Ensconced in the middle of the couch under a blanket due to the fact that even this close to noon, the temperature now only barely reaches above freezing, Dean grimly continues his third re-read of the reports from Ichabod.  
He began just after Amanda left at noon the previous day, and his mood, while not particularly cheerful, degenerated rapidly despite an impromptu trip to his shooting range that afternoon.  Rage and grief resulted in the destruction of many, many, many targets until his right hand shook too badly to even hold a gun, fingers refusing to even close, and his left little better; for the first time, Castiel was forced to stop him before he did himself serious injury.  Dean didn't even seem to notice as Castiel treating his blood-streaked palms, skin a mass of broken, oozing blisters between the bright swells of new ones growing beneath the developing calluses.  Glancing at his still-bandaged hands, gauze wrapped up to his wrists, he looks away before Dean catches him; Dean may not have noticed the damage he'd done to his palms, but he never stopped looking at the half-healed outline of teeth just above the wrist until it was covered by the gauze, expression a mixture of blind rage and blank curiosity edged with uneasy fear.  
Observation and carefully worded questions over the last four days have confirmed beyond any doubt that Dean doesn't remember anything from when he arrived on the second floor of the daycare to the moment Castiel entered the courtyard.  After that is a blurred, inchoate mess that consists of snatches of his conversation with Castiel from his seat on Grant's dismembered body between spaces of uncertainty, becoming steadily more organized until the moment, crystal-clear despite being unspoken between them, that Dean told Castiel to shoot him. 
His nights, however, are where he makes amends for what he can't do awake, punishing himself in endless, terror soaked nightmares that he can't remember in more than unformed impressions of revulsion and sickened pleasure taken in inflicting pain and his own endless horror. Private consultation with Amanda, who like Dean was raised to be a hunter from childhood, confirmed his own belief that if Dean's own mind, inured to horrors beyond anything most humans, even hunters, ever have to bear, felt it necessary to block it out, it was possible it had good reason to do it.
("I listened to the way he questioned everyone yesterday," she told him, glancing at the door every few minutes despite the fact that Joseph was keeping Dean occupied with very important business regarding his last trip to the border and wouldn't let him out of his sight until Amanda personally dropped by with a casual question to indicate it was safe for Dean to return home.  "And I watched him while I was telling him about the daycare to see how he reacted.  Cas, if there was something there to trigger, that should have done it.  If he remembers on his own, that's one thing, but telling him the details to force it…" 
"You're certain?"
"Nothing's certain in life, even death and taxes; it's always gonna be best guess now and hope for the best."  Licking her lips, she met his eyes.  "He knew Grant."
"I know--"
"You don't…" She looked away, taking a deep breath before looking at him again.  "Grant was thirteen when his entire town was wiped out by Croat just before Kansas was zoned.  His parents--they were picking up his baby sister from preschool on their way out of town when one of the teachers turned on her class, the one his sister was in."  She paused, swallowing convulsively before continuing.  "They got out, but not before--they were all infected and knew it.  Grant was waiting in the car, though, he was still okay, so they told him they'd changed their minds, decided to lock up the house and wait it out.  
"They took him home, locked him in their attic with all the food in the house and the bottled water they'd bought for when they left town, and told him they loved him and always would.  They blocked all the windows and doors as best they could to protect him, used their truck to block the front door, and drove the car to the other side of town to kill themselves and her, just so he wouldn't have to hear the gunshots.  It was only luck that Alison's group happened to check that town for livability and found him." She looked away, swallowing again.  "He was in shock.  Dolores had to put him on an IV, and Tony was force feeding him in a goddamn van for almost a week just to keep him alive before they found Ichabod."
In the infected zone, tragedy was the rule with painfully few exceptions, but its power somehow never seemed to lessen no matter how great the number.  "I didn't know--"
"You couldn't," she interrupted, eyes suddenly filling with tears.  "No one knew, not all of it, except Dolores, maybe.  Grant never told them any more than what they could figure out for themselves--except Dean.  And then he told me, because he wanted to know how old he had to be before he could start training for Chitaqua and be--be a hunter like Dean and help him save the world.  So he could stop what happened to him--to all of them--from happening again."  
Dean's amused anecdotes regarding Grant and Connie now have a different context.  "Oh."
She wiped her eyes impatiently. "That demon would have killed Grant anyway, we both know that; the kind that goes in for human sacrifice make sure the meatsuit's fucked before they leave, voluntary or not. All Dean did was cut short what it would have made Grant do before it let him die.  How Dean did it…." She shrugged helplessly.  "Details.  For now, if his mind thinks he shouldn't remember it, I'd say it knows better than we do what he can handle. Which I'm pretty sure you already figured out on your own."
"I wasn't sure I was being objective." He looked away, almost ashamed of admitting his own failure in his duty to Dean.  He deserved the best, and Castiel's best will never do anything but fall far short.
"You aren't," she answered bluntly, closing a hand over his in unexpected reassurance.  "You can't be; no one is, not when it comes to someone they love."
"It's my job to--"
"It's not your job to do everything," she interrupted, fingers squeezing his in emphasis.  "It's your job to do what you can, know what and when you can't, and get help to get it done, and by the way, that's exactly what you just did.  Congratulations on your leadership and your human skills," she added with a faint smile. "Even humans fuck up there, and I'm pretty sure that's one thing Dean's never learned himself."
Looking into the warm blue eyes, he realized he was smiling.  "Thank you."
She smiled back.  "Anytime.")
Ichabod's final count of casualties totaled sixty-nine: fifty-five adults and fourteen children (not including the seven adults who lived in Ichabod only to betray it).  While tragic, the number is far lower than any town could have expected, a credit to Ichabod's strict protocols and experience, but Dean judges victory not in those who survived, but defeat in those who didn't.  The names of the dead, like those of the team leaders that Dean didn't even known, are branded into his memory for all time, losses carried by a man for whom fault and responsibility are interchangeable at best.
Survival, however, always carries its own burdens, demanding payment for the privilege of living not limited to the grief for those that were lost.  In a town that by necessity and choice required of its residents an intimacy unknown in even the smallest of towns before the Apocalypse, no one is exempt from paying it.
Sandar and Julio, the two members of patrol that were possessed when guarding the town center, are currently in Dolores' care, but despite few injuries, the psychological impact of possession always lingers, especially in those whose duty is to protect others from harm and were forced to cause it themselves.  
Glen, Serafina, and Francisco, the only teachers to survive, were spared only the sight of the victims in the daycare, not the knowledge of what happened or how they died.  Though the building was thoroughly cleaned and the damage repaired, reminders exist in the empty spaces in each classroom that was once a child, a teacher, an adolescent or adult on duty, in the parents who no longer appear to drop off their children each morning and pick them up in the evenings.  
Three entire families lost their lives in the daycare that day; a mother and her two children; a father and his only daughter; and two women newly married the previous spring died on the first floor only moments after the human infiltrators succumbed to the Croatoan virus they'd deliberately allowed to infect them; the women's five year old son and two year old daughter were killed inches from the second floor stairs and safety.  That may have been considered the kinder fate to some of those who survived and now lived the alternative.
Dwayne, six weeks from his third birthday and killed on the daycare's second floor before Dean's eyes, was the only child of his parents, who found Ichabod after fleeing the raiders who attacked their small town on the northern border of Kansas the year before.  Del, only two days old when Castiel first visited Ichabod, was her mother's first and only child, born seven months after the death of her father in one of the last attacks on Ichabod before the barrier enclosed Kansas.  Ten year old Jessica and her four year old brother Lian were found alive and uninjured in the locked kitchen pantry, their dead mother slumped across the doorway with a bloody butcher knife still clutched in one cold hand, the Croat she'd frantically half-butchered even as she died beside her; Dean was the one who put the bullets in its head that finally ended the weakened, mindless atrocities it was still committing to her dead body.  Sandy, Una's five year old daughter, was among the last of the children to escape to the third floor as Una and her eldest son, fifteen year old Clark, blocked the stairs to protect them. Grant's birth parents may have been dead, but Dolores became as much his mother as the woman who bore him over the short years she'd had him, her contained grief no less for it being under such strict control as she continued in her duties to the town and the other survivors.  
Ten grieving, bewildered children, brought to Ichabod as bait and now left alone in a town they barely know, live in a limbo of fear, loss, and uncertainty, victims of the most personal, most devastating kind of betrayal, the brutal violation of the trust invested in those given the gift and responsibility that comes with raising a child.  If there's anything to be thankful for, it's their youth; only the oldest of them can even begin to grasp it, and Glenn and Serafina have worked tirelessly to shield them as best they could from what couldn't be hidden.
Amanda wasn't the only one who had the responsibility of ending the life of one of those infected; it was the duty of every leader in Ichabod to the people under their command.  Manuel was the one to give Leanne, the only member of patrol who was infected, the shot that ended her life, and he and Teresa waited with her body and that of Hobby, who lost his life in the northern fields in defense of the town he loved.  Tony took that duty for Jordan, a member of city services as well as a close, personal friend, who used his own body as a distraction in the northern fields to let the others escape in the few, too-long minutes before patrol arrived to protect them.  Dry-eyed and tearless, Alison and Claudia stood witness with the other town leaders to the burning of the bodies from the moment the tinder caught until the ashes were placed within the town's cemetery under a layer of salt before they were covered in earth, a single large stone with the date of death above a painstakingly carved list of the names of those that died.  
Like Dean, they don't see their success in those that survive, but failure in each and every death of those under their care.
(Some things couldn't be written, and even more shouldn't be, and not just for Dean's sake; those things were private, meant for no ears but those chosen to share it.  In the bedroom that night, Amanda told him more, spilling words between sobbing breaths that described life in the wake of a tragedy that left no one untouched.
She volunteered for duty in the mortuary as one of the few who hadn't lost family by blood or choice and stood witness to the most intimate, most private moments of pain of those left behind; the agony of parents in silent vigil over their children, the children old enough to be allowed to do the same with and for their own parents and siblings, the extended families that gathered by each sheet-wrapped body, some having first waited out the short hours until the end with those infected from the other side of the fragile barrier of a pane of glass.
Cathy, Del's mother, had to be dragged screaming from the tiny bundle of her child's body, already half-unwrapped when they stopped her attempt to infect herself and is now being carefully watched and cared for by those in her building.  The night before the bodies were burned, Connie evaded the watchers to see Grant one last time and had to be restrained by Amanda in her hysterical horror and grief at what was left of him until a shattered Dolores arrived to sedate her.  Irrational from guilt and shock, Sandar escaped from the infirmary and broke into the mortuary to hold Leanne's sheet wrapped body in his arms under Manuel and Teresa's supervision the endless hours until he could carry it to the fire himself before he collapsed.
Amanda looked in vain for the faces of the four students she lost, feeling the shock of loss anew every time she couldn't find them.  Her new students channeled their fierce grief channeled into learning everything she could teach them, burning out their pain in exhaustion on the training field each day, to honor the memory of those that they replaced.  Jake and Peter were the two residents the demons possessed that he and Amanda killed; the grief-stricken families gave her without hesitation the absolution that she never would have asked them for, that couldn't and still can't give herself.)
Abruptly, Dean throws the report back on the coffee table, nearly knocking over a half-empty cup, coffee long grown cold.  "This can't happen again."
From the other side, Castiel nods agreement to what they both know is true; this won't happen again.  It will be a variety of different things, but apparently not quite yet. 
"Surprised anyone could get through the barrier?  It's getting weaker, Cas." 
Jeffrey, six demons infecting over four hundred people with Croatoan for the attack on Ichabod, and that design in the courtyard that was purified by Teresa and Kamal.  The laws of contamination should assure that anything left of the original was dissolved during the cleansing, breaking the tie with the children entirely if it existed at all.  And yet….
This much has been confirmed, at least: when David and Melanie took the Croatoan body to an unoccupied portion of the border, there were results, though none of them quite know what to do with the information that the dead body burned to ash before their eyes when they finally decided just to throw it across and see what happened.  Sometimes, Melanie said, still looking deeply unsettled, old school is best.  
(Whatever that means.  He's not certain any school in all of history recommended tossing Croatoans across state lines just to see what happened, but its effectiveness argues it definitely should have been.)
While he generally wouldn't extrapolate from so little information (or the words of a demon as incompetent as Jeffrey), at this point it's fairly obvious the barrier exists and is indeed the reason for the current hiatus in Kansas.  Demons can somehow now cross it, however, because it's weakening.  An experiment that confirmed absolutely nothing they didn't already know while providing nothing new, even the origin point of the power that fuels it (and for that matter, what powers it).  It's not that he doesn't appreciate visual proof, but that's literally the only thing they didn't have before.
Amanda's report--with amendments and notes from Manuel as well as the others involved in the ongoing investigation--gave the current number of vehicles so far found at twenty-eight, including a retired school bus, two dilapidated minivans, and three vans.  All those with plates were ones issued in Kansas, inspection stickers dating to three days before Kansas was declared infected.  Searches of the interiors showed wear consistent with age and use, but far less bloodstains and far more intact upholstery than one might suspect from a vehicle that housed multiple Croatoans for any length of time.  Only half of them had keys, the others showing signs of having been hotwired for use.  The interior cabs as well as the trunks were otherwise immaculate; the minutia of trash, equipment, and personal items are absent, trunks empty even of a spare tire or tools and equipment generally found in vehicles in frequent use.
Castiel's familiarity with humans' relationship with their automobiles, both those in constant use and those left to rust, tells him these were deliberately stripped.  If he were guessing (he's not, he's certain), that would include the missing license plates as well.
Ichabod's mechanical experts, Melody and Tyrone, are still in the process of examining the vehicles, but their initial findings are as confusing as the rest: many of the vehicles had engines that were barely serviceable, but some were brand new, as if taken from an empty dealership, and few showed signs of regular maintenance and very recent at that: oil changed within the last six months, sufficient brake and steering fluid, dashboards with signs of cleaning, engines repaired
The list of license plate numbers will be sent with Joseph on his next trip to the border, along with casual questions about any problems with people crossing either into or between the zones, but it's far more likely all of those infected were from somewhere within Kansas.  It's not particularly limiting; the infected zone is dangerous, and acquisition would be both painfully easy and in some parts probably unremarked.  People vanish every day from existing towns, and that doesn't include the migratory groups or the raiders who move restlessly between the infected states and whose exact numbers are unknown.
("Definitely not raiders," Amanda told them.  "From what I've heard, they keep their vehicles in good repair and sometimes mount rockets on the roof, the better to hit and run.  Ichabod didn't have much of a problem with them, but Mount Hope's practically on top of 96; they got hit regularly before the alliance with the other towns and still get a couple of outliers every few months."
"You're kidding," Dean said blankly.  "You're not.  Rockets?"  Then, "You want an SUV with a rocket launcher on the roof, don't you?"
"I do, and so do you," she answered serenely.  "Sheila's working on specs right now from all those military vehicles we stole--uh, repurposed since the military didn't need them anymore."
Dean looked at him helplessly, but Castiel couldn't deny that he would indeed like a rocket launcher mounted on the roof of his jeep.  And a minigun as well, so as to kill Croats by the legion from the convenience of the driver's seat: who wouldn't want that?)
"Cas?  You with me?"
Making an effort, he returns his attention to Dean; from his expression, he's been failing to get his attention for several minutes and it's done nothing to improve an already terrible mood.  He almost misses the resigned inevitability of a future ice age without generators and megafauna bent on consumption of human flesh; Dean's bitterness fills each extended silence far more loudly than his anger.  He supposes he should be grateful; it could have been absent, after all, and Dean as well, ended with the bullet he requested that Castiel place in his head.
"This--Cas, tell me it's a coincidence," Dean continues.  "Nothing for months, then we go to Ichabod and suddenly they're under attack?"
"It wasn't our presence there that attracted them." That demon's surprise was genuine when it saw him, which is curious in itself, considering that the one that spoke to Manuel identified him as leader of Chitaqua.  He doesn't think 'Cas' or 'Castiel' is that common a name on earth, much less Kansas, and he's definitely the only one in Chitaqua.  "They wouldn't have risked that attack with so few demons if they'd suspected anyone from Chitaqua was present.  Especially if they meant to accomplish a complete human sacrifice without interruption, which is probably why they needed so many Croats to provide a distraction."  
A very sensible precaution, especially considering these were demons and 'sensible' generally isn't a characteristic they possess.  With most forms of human sacrifice, any interruption, even the most benign, ends in failure at best, often killing those performing it in the process as well as the sacrifices in question.  The rules are very strict, and those exclusively devoted to the acquisition of power are even more so, but all of them have three things in common: each human must satisfy the strictest interpretation of the criteria, the time to perform it is limited, and once it's begun, it must be completed all at once or it fails.  
Using children isn't uncommon, no, but the criteria for inclusion is never that general, and their range of ages makes even the general suspect; ten years old, after all, is well past the traditional age of reason.  The oldest of them has already entered puberty, and whether or not her body has achieved menarche, she wouldn't satisfy even the loosest interpretation of 'child' when it comes to stringent requirements of any form ritual magic.
"Six is a few?" Dean asks incredulously, interrupting his thoughts, then makes a face, possibly remembering he and Amanda killed three themselves with minimal effort.  To be fair, however--he doesn't have to be, of course, but he can be generous--their combat skills were truly terrible.  "Never mind, I withdraw the question. Look--"
"I need a day, perhaps two," he interrupts before having to work through whatever caustic commentary Dean happens to have at hand to deploy at his pleasure.  "I need to go the church where the children were originally found two years ago and see if I can discover what happened there.  If it was a human sacrifice, then perhaps--"
"You think they were trying again in Ichabod after failing the first time at that church with the same kids? Why?  Dean snorts.  "They couldn't have been that stupid.  Why not use the people they infected for Croat duty instead of attacking a goddamn town to get those kids again?" Still scowling, he reaches for Amanda's report and skims to the relevant portion for this conversation and pausing, scowl fading.  "Amanda asked good questions."
"She knew I'd want more information and since I wasn't there to get it, she did it for me."  Amanda was succinct but thorough on the major points, and during quarantine, he supposes the distraction might have been welcome to everyone involved.  "At least, more information than I already seem to have."
Dean doesn't look up.  "What?"
"Fifteen children, ages two and a half weeks to ten years and four months, were found in a rural Roman Catholic church that housed thirty-five members of order of the Sisters of Mercy, one novice to the order, and a priest." Dean looks up, startled.  "The only survivor other than the children was the novice, a young woman, aged twenty-four, who was completing her apostolic year in the novitiate and preparing for her first profession.  The Sisters were crucified on the church walls by demons who possessed the priest and four lay members of the church and were engaged in ritual human sacrifice that was stopped by means as yet unknown, but it's possible that part is simply delayed and will appear at any moment.  Give me time." 
Dean slowly lowers the report. "How do you--"
"I don't know how I know any of that," he interrupts flatly.  "Or why, until the attack on Ichabod, I didn't even know that I knew it."
There's more, of course; Amanda's report was startling not in content, but in how little he seemed to already know as he read it, more pieces appearing as from the ether and clicking into place with every word.  The novice was near-catatonic and either unable or unwilling to tell them what happened or even her own name before she recovered enough to regain mobility and vanished from the infirmary one night despite the watchers who swore they'd been awake the entire night and never saw her leave until dawn broke to illuminate her empty bed.  Alison wasn't able to describe her knife very thoroughly, as the novice refused to release it, but he didn't need it to know every detail of what she carried or why she wouldn't let it be taken from her hands, and he can easily guess why she was able to evade her watchers so easily.  The problem is that particular knife shouldn't exist on this plane, not anymore. 
"Infinite knowledge that you just didn't find it until--yeah, didn't think so."  Dean glances at the report one more time before setting it aside, green eyes suddenly focusing on him with visible worry.  "Cas?  What's wrong?"
What's wrong.  "I--" He can't find the words to explain; they all sound like lies.  "I don't know how I--why--"
"Hey, hey, stop it.  Come here."  Obediently, Castiel gets to his feet to join Dean on the couch, almost immediately gaining half the blanket as well as Dean's entire attention.  "You okay?"
Smoothing his hand over the soft wool, he tries to organize his thoughts to something approaching coherency.  "I'm not sure where to start."
"Anywhere you want," Dean says promptly, inching closer--to keep his share of the blanket, he  supposes--before turning sideways and bracing an arm on the back of the couch.  "Just start and we'll go from there."
Strangely enough, that actually does help.  "Human sacrifice has a distinct pattern and angels would recognize it in all its many, many obscene variations, but the design in the courtyard--I recognized it for what it was, but I didn't remember it being in existence until that moment. That's not possible unless it went into use after I Fell and the Host left or it would have been known to me from the moment of my creation."
Dean accepts the variability of infinite knowledge with a resigned nod.  "So it's new?"
"Yes, and that's very rare and therefore troubling in itself," he explains.  "For one, it's not easy to hide something like that from Time itself.  For another, Hell doesn't encourage innovation.  I'd expect a human practitioner of the darker aspects of ritual magic to come up with something new--they do that as a matter of course, a solution for boredom, I suppose, though generally they kill themselves in the process of failing at it since knowledge is always lacking--but a demon, no.  The rack and eternal suffering tend to have a dulling effect on creativity, and what little they might still exhibit isn't encouraged by their masters, unless it results in new ways to inflict pain on the rack, of course."  
"Can't risk demons getting above themselves, yeah."  Dean studies him thoughtfully.  "That's not the part that's bothering you, though."
"It bothers me, it's simply lost among the many other things about this that bother me more," he answers. "I didn't remember the church until I asked Amanda about Lily's vaccinations.  When I saw the design in the courtyard, I recognized it, but not just the pattern of human sacrifice and not just that it was new to all of Creation.  I also remembered it, the unique configuration of symbols that made it despite the fact that I have no memory of ever seeing it before that day."
Dean sucks in a breath in belated understanding of the distinction.  "You don't forget anything."
"I can't forget anything," he corrects Dean.  "I remember everything that's ever happened to me since I Fell, and nothing--and take this as a given, I do mean nothing in Creation--can affect infinite memory from when I was an angel.  The only explanation that fits is that not only did it come into existence after I Fell, but I witnessed not just it's use in that church, but it's first use on earth in all of time and somehow--forgot about it.  And this," he adds for emphasis, "isn't something I would have voluntarily attempted not to think about."
"Right, so let's start there."  He cocks his head.  "Who--or what--could fuck you’re your memory?  And for that matter, why?"
"For the first--that is a more complex question than you might think." Dean's eyebrows jump.  "From what Alison told Amanda, this occurred over two and a half years ago--though due to their own problems, the exact date is vague--and since I know it happened after I Fell, the Host would have already been gone.  Even if they'd been here….if Lucifer, the most powerful archangel in existence, couldn't read my mind as I am now, I seriously doubt the Host could manage to erase any portion of it."
"Or care enough about earth to even try on the way out the door."  Dean's mouth quirks briefly at his emphatic nod.  "So next up…."
"My Father," not adding 'obviously' in the spirit of open and non-hostile communication.  "However, in this case, there's another possible candidate: a god.  However--"
"A god," Dean repeats blankly.  "A god could fuck with your memory?  Any god?"
He hesitates.  "Not any god, no.  But--"
"So this might have happened before they all--died, ran, were killed?"  
"No, it definitely happened before then."  The knife is fairly convincing proof of that much.
Dean starts to say something, then frowns.  "You know, I never asked--how did you know about that, anyway?  Them all dying or whatever?"
"Cosmic events tend to attract attention, and the gods vanishing from existence all at once qualifies without exception." 
Dean snorts.  "So a god might be able to fuck with your memory?"
"In my true form, or even in a vessel, it's possible, but only in the sense that anything is possible, but extraordinarily unlikely, and not just due to the amount of power that would take or the fact they probably wouldn't survive it.  Call it a courtesy between infinite beings: generally, we're discouraged from anything less than outright warfare to the death, and it's fairly rare that there's any reason for confrontation.  Different spheres of interest, you might say."
"And now?"
"If Lucifer couldn't read my mind, then they couldn't either," he answers.  "And certainly not like this; they wouldn't even  know how."
Dean leans forward.  "What do you mean 'like this'?"
This is more difficult to explain.  "I can't forget anything, but you have to understand what that means.  Think of it as someone writing on a blank sheet of paper and then erasing a portion; that portion would be blank, but you'd still notice where the words were on the page.  Even if--in theory--a god could remove those memories, they couldn't remove the space that those memories occupied any more than you can on a sheet of paper.  I would notice a blank space where something should be, and there isn't one."  Not looking at Dean, he forces himself to continue. "If I actively participated, however, that would be different.  Because my memories are now formed organically and in linear time, they're stored sequentially, past to present.  All I'd need to do is take them out of the sequence so they wouldn't appear in my past."
"And the blank spot?"
"There wouldn't be one, because the memories still exist; to find them now, I'd need to know exactly where to look, the absolute last moment before they were removed as well as the absolute first moment after, and then look between those two points or I'll miss it."
"And when you say 'exact'…."
"Even if those two points were in the same minute, in linear time it would take me centuries of interrupted time to examine each and every point of time within sixty seconds to find the absolute beginning and end, and even then, I'd need to find both points at the exact same time or I'd still miss it." Honesty forces him to add, "Dean, I couldn't manage doing that for ten minutes.  Imagine examining your life in slow motion, and 'slow' being an insufficient descriptor of the progress by several orders of magnitude."
"Holy shit," Dean says, looking horrified.  "Talk about boring--"
"Whoever said you can't die from boredom, they're lying, and if I do that, I can prove it beyond a shadow of a doubt."  Shaking himself, he returns to the original subject.  "Gods--and for that matter, angels--exist out of time, but more importantly, they don't understand human memory, much less how it's stored in linear time.  I certainly didn't until I was subject to it, which is why I'm the only one who would even know what to do, much less how to do it."  He looks at Dean.  "However, I don't have Grace, and to do this, I'd need power that I could use.  A god could supply that, provided they were willing to do it, and I was willing to let them."
Dean's sheer lack of surprise is almost as reassuring as it is baffling  "Weirdly enough," he offers, seeing Castiel's bewilderment, "I kind of saw that coming.  Keep going."
"A god who let me use their power--and who I'd accept it from, even under duress--narrows down the possibilities dramatically," he continues, reluctantly filing it away as yet another example of the ineffableness that is Dean Winchester, which are now greater than the largest number humanity has found a word to describe.  "And there's only one whose most distinctive weapon was a knife that could kill demons and couldn't be removed from its bearer except by their own will."
"The one the novice had with her," Dean says in satisfaction.  "Yeah, I was wondering why the hell they couldn’t get it away from her.  So that knife--"
"It was the weapon of choice of her acolytes as well, who were, in case this sounds familiar, exclusively women who vowed themselves to her in divine service."
"Service--humility, poverty, feed the poor, help the helpless--"
"--and slaughtering demons with the knives they carried, as well as anything supernatural that threatened humanity.  Mostly the latter, however."  Dean's mouth drops open.  "Her cult was an exclusively militant one: very small but extremely dangerous.  They had a very high rate of success in their area of influence."
"A cult," Dean says slowly, like Castiel just offered him a wrapped gift holding everything he ever wanted, including an endless supply of bacon cheeseburgers and pie, "of knife-wielding women who kill demons for fun and their goddess? Where the fuck was that in history class?"
"Perhaps you slept through it during sophomore year?" he offers wryly.  "Her cult died out before the fall of Babylon, and in case you slept through this as well, at that point in history written records were rare, and literacy even more so."
"You knew her, though.  Got a name for me?"
"She doesn't have one."
Dean closes his eyes briefly, looking pained.  "Of course she doesn't.  Too easy, right?"  
"At least, not one I know anymore," he continues, which makes Dean sigh his resignation to the universe making his life more difficult than it should be.  "When her cult died, she destroyed her temples and disavowed her known names as well as her true one, effectively erasing her existence on this plane unless she took another one first, which is apparently exactly what she did.  What it is, however, I doubt anyone knew but her.  Privilege of a god: even angels aren't permitted to access the full knowledge of their former names without their consent, which is one of the reasons that Gabriel was so successful in hiding what he was after he became Loki."
Dean's interest sharpens. "Can't get a lot of worshippers like that."
"She wouldn't have done all of that if she still wanted them," he answers.  "I don't know why she disavowed her true name, but it probably proved very useful when Lucifer began his purge.  It's very hard to find a god in time and space without a name and no active worshippers, especially when the only point of reference is a very short period of time--by divine standards, in any case--millennia ago.  As Lucifer probably discovered, hopefully much to his frustration, as he deals very badly with that."
"All things on this plane have names, yeah, I remember." Dean cocks his head.  "You didn't just know her, did you?  What was she--friend, friendly ally, chaotic neutral--"
"My very first instructor in hunting in a human body on earth." He bites back a smile at Dean's surprise. "Or rather, of two of my vessels, who housed me during my assignments on earth then."
Dean glances outside, eyeing the sun an hour short of its zenith, then sheds his blanket of misery--both metaphorical and literal--like an ill-fitting skin, stretching absently.  "Joe's got nothing to do until Ana gets back to him about how to blow up that warehouse or his next border run, so he can watch the camp while we're gone.  We leave now, we can probably make it a couple of hours before dusk, but just in case--"
"You want to come."  He's not sure why he's surprised.  What happened in that church in the past not only caused the attack on Ichabod, but could be a precursor of something yet to come.  "I'll speak to Joseph," he says, standing up belatedly.  "Do you want me to--"
"Cas, you're not doing this on your own, and--look, you want someone else, too fucking bad, it's me or you're not going."  He watches Dean's expression abruptly change, belligerence becoming--he has no idea. "Uh, if this is about--look, I get we really haven't talked about--you know, what happened."
Castiel stares at him for a moment and decides not to even try; at his best, it could take days to decipher that, and he'd like to arrive at the church today.  "Dean, the number of things that have happened that we haven't talked about is legion.  Even if we only count from this morning--"
"When we were--" Dean's face goes through various contortions, all of which resemble pain. "In Ichabod.  I told you to shoot me, you--you didn't like that," that would be one word for it, he supposes blankly, but only if there were no other words in all of existence, in which case he would have invented all of them then and there, "and things were said….whatever.  Look, just take as a given, I get that was you were upset."  
Castiel nods, trying to decide the number of syllables for the word he's inventing at this very moment, because 'understatement' has the same relevance when applied to this conversation as 'didn't like' describes to his reaction to Dean's demand that he shoot him and 'upset' his feelings at the time.  It may very well require an entirely new language, or in lieu of that, a very carefully controlled punch to Dean's face; it could go either way.
"Yes," he agrees when he realizes that Dean's actually waiting for his answer.  "I was."
Dean starts to relax, like someone having successfully navigated a minefield without certainty they would emerge unscathed: the idea of two punches in succession grows almost unbearably attractive.  It's not as if the camp doesn't have an icemaker should the freezer not contain sufficient ice to deal with the copious swelling.
"Not a problem," Dean tells him, emanating reassurance and sincerity like a cologne experiment gone hideously wrong.  "Just forget it, okay?  I don't want this to be weird."
Weird.  That word again.
"Would it be--weird," he asks, staring into Dean's eyes, "if I was engaged in a fit of hyperbole that day or if I were being both literal and breathtakingly honest?" The utter horror that stares back at him is almost as good as three punches followed by an ice bath and a diet exclusively devoted to oatmeal without sugar and canned lima beans.  "Whichever is less so, you tell me."
Dean visibly swallows before saying, "You get Joe, I get armed, and we don't talk about it ever again, how's that?"
"Good.  Remain in the cabin until I return," he adds on his way to the door.  "I'm checking you thoroughly before we leave, so make sure you're fully armed, which includes carrying sufficient ammunition.  This is a test, and if you fail, I'll be arming you myself every time you leave this camp for the foreseeable future."
"You can't--"
"Yes I can." Pausing halfway out the door, he has the satisfaction of watching Dean's mouth snap shut.  "But please, if you have any doubts, feel absolutely free to make me prove it."
"Why," asks Dean, two hours and twenty-two minutes later, "do you always have to drive?"
There's a sense of honest bewilderment in his voice.  It's almost surreal.  "It's my jeep."
"Could have taken mine."
Yes, they could have, which has been pointed out at least eight times since they left the garage, each time in response to Castiel's answer to his question on why Castiel had to drive.  That means that they've had the same conversation an average of every seventeen and three quarters minutes, and the last four he's fairly sure have consisted of exactly the same words.
"We took mine," he answers--now five times using the exact same words, maybe he should set a goal--and Dean returns to pondering the unsolvable mystery of why Castiel prefers to drive, expressing the winter of his discontent to the passing scenery.  
He double checked the route on the latest updates to the maps from the patrol before they left, so very soon, a clean stretch of highway will appear, the pleasures of which even Dean can't deny but will inevitably hasten the next reiteration of why Castiel is driving and he isn't (possibly requiring him to recalculate a new average, that's something to look forward to, he supposes).  The reason why he likes to drive should be blindingly obvious by now, or their average speed during their drives together should have suggested at very least.
Deciding the scenery isn't that interesting after all--overgrown fields, the occasional rusting car, some terrible road maintenance, sometimes a small abandoned town--and possibly feeling it's not yet time to reiterate the topic of why Castiel drives so soon, Dean returns his attention to Castiel to ask, "Why did those demons go after a convent of nuns and kids in the first place?  Virginity get you a higher octane sacrifice or something?"
"That's assuming--wrongly--that only virgin women take orders; in case this wasn't obvious, that's often the exception, not the rule.  Chasity is a requirement of service, but certainly doesn't extend to the time before they took orders."  Uneasily, he starts to wonder just how often Dean slept during history class.  "In any case, a virginity requirement is generally a drawback when  it comes to any ritual magic, especially human sacrifice in pursuit of gaining power  Those that do require it are rarely used unless it's the only option, and even more rarely are they successful.  What defines 'virginity' can be subject to a surprising amount of interpretation and can vary by culture due to the differences in terminology as well as period of time.  The corruption of presumed purity via sexual congress, willing or not, is most often simply a revolting perk."
Dean grimaces.  "I really didn't need to know that."
"I'd prefer not to know it either, but I don't have a choice," he answers truthfully.  "As sexual purity is, for some less unthinkable rituals, a very strictly define requirement, the inverse would be preferred for human sacrifice.  In this case, it was probably their presumed vulnerability.  A group of cloistered women, part of an order emphasizing service and humility would seem--"
"Easy pickings."  Dean's sour expression deepens.  "Son of a bitch."
"They weren't as easy as that, if what little Alison learned from the young woman and traders was accurate.  The surviving woman was a novice to the Sisters of Mercy, an order founded on service with an emphasis on helping women and children.  This particular convent, however, apparently took that in a unique direction in fulfilling their calling after Lucifer was freed from the Cage; they became hunters, and their service included finding and rescuing families as well as orphaned children, and they went into the world armed to do it.  I'm going to guess that they made life very inconvenient for demons here."
"Sounds familiar," Dean says, looking at him speculatively.  "Huh.  You think that's why your goddess may have been there?  That doesn't make sense. They weren't hers, so why would she care?"
"In this case, it wouldn't have mattered if they were hers," he tells Dean's skeptical expression.  "You could say as a god that was her--purpose.  If she'd known about an attack on a convent--or any enclave of women given to divine service--it would have attracted her attention, especially ones founded to help women and who fought demons as part of the terms of their service, no matter when it happened in time or what god they served."
"I'm not seeing it." Dean's cynicism radiates almost visibly from the other side of the cabin.  "We're nothing to them but food, sometimes literally.  They don't even see us."
Castiel thinks of what Alison told him: life lived in quantum.  A very intelligent and insightful observation, especially from a woman who disclaimed any knowledge of angels.  Amanda's report wasn't clear on the reason why the town investigated that particular church, though he suspects it was probably been as a result of either Alison's clairvoyance or possibly Teresa's bond with the earth, either of which would explain Alison's reticence.  Their relationship would make Alison personally ambivalent regarding disclosures that might threaten Teresa's life, even to trusted allies who she knew were already aware of Teresa's abilities, and the same would be true of Teresa regarding Alison.
Teresa would have done her best to isolate the contamination of the earth at the church even if she couldn't break the bindings then.  Even as strong as she is, a human sacrifice would be dangerous for her to attempt to cleanse alone, and she would have weighed the corruption of the earth against her duty to the people of Ichabod and the earth there.  It makes him wonder if that was, at least in part, among her reasons for sharing her knowledge with Neeraja and Sudha, even given the difficulties far greater than simple translation.
Bruja blanca, white witch, is a general term describing any witch who followed the path of good, but Teresa came from a very specific tradition encompassing not simply doing good, but seeking out evil and destroying it; as Dean had pointed out, her job description and his had many similarities.  
Dean's, however, didn't come with the strict, merciless training that began in early childhood and continued throughout apprenticeship, unforgiving of weakness and uncertainty, tested and tempered and shaped to bear the responsibilities of the power they would wield and pay the price it would exact without hesitation.  The ability to enslave the very earth isn't one that can be entrusted to anyone who would ever imagine doing it, and that was only one of the things Teresa could do; to share even a little of her knowledge with anyone not raised from birth in her traditions would be dangerous enough, but outsiders who embraced them with whole hearts and minds would always be accepted.  Neeraja and Sudha are neither of those things, and her choice to teach them any part of what she did was one of faith and desperate hope; hope that it would be enough to save them all, and faith that whatever qualities had made her choose them would be proven true when they were tested.  
"Cas?"
Frowning, he returns his attention to the subject at hand.  "It's not as simple as that."  
Dean's expression tells him what he thinks of that as an argument; the problem is, he's not wrong, and his experiences may be subjective, but they aren't unique.  It's also an opinion that he's begun to share; what he accepted without question as an angel on the nature of the divine and its rights on this plane has undergone a revision, and possibly one far less forgiving than even Dean could be.  Unlike Dean or any human, the unfathomable isn't a mystery to him, and the longer he lives on this world, the more he thinks the protections inherent to humanity have depended far too much on good intentions and good faith.  Knowing the rules would help them a great deal, he reflects idly; that would probably be the reason they've always been denied that knowledge.
"Gods have a bond with their worshippers," he says, testing the idea.  "It's not one sided, it can't be, any more than an object dropped can defy gravity.  There's a price that comes with accepting worship, and it must be paid."
"Never noticed it slowing them down fucking with us."
"Humans possess free will; gods, like angels, don't.  They only have purpose, and that purpose defines them."  Dean blinks, looking at him in dawning surprise and something like approval, but why, he's not sure.  "A god requires worship--it's why they exist--but to accept it is as binding a contract as any a human makes with a demon, and the terms are far less forgiving."
Dean nods, still smiling faintly.  "Huh."
"There is no negotiation; the terms were set before Time began, and those terms are unbreakable." He doesn't fight the smile now; Dean will appreciate this.  "Even Gabriel found that out the hard way.  He enjoyed being a trickster, yes, but that was simply good fortune.  Once he presented himself as Loki and took human worship in that form, he was bound to it as long as his worshippers existed on this earth.  And that's only one of the terms."  
Dean's grin takes on an edge of pleased malice, and he finds himself thinks of his own counterpart again, this time with a sense of unreality; he had to have known what it would mean to try and claim Creation itself and accept the worship of all humanity.  The limitations of an angel are nothing to those that bind a god; even dimly, he must have guessed how much he would lose.
"It's a contract in that sense, but it's strict and unambiguous in interpretation, and the penalty for consciously breaking it is far, far worse," he continues, shoving thoughts of that Castiel away.  "Either way, the penalty is identical."  Dean cocks his head, curious.  "An eternity in Hell would be a far kinder fate for a god who breaks faith with their followers than that.  They'd kill themselves to avoid it."
Dean straightens, startled.  "That why some of them did it here?  Instead of fighting for their worshippers or running away, they killed themselves?"
"Lucifer was the first archangel of Heaven with all of Hell under his command.  They couldn't hope to defeat him."  He pauses, considering his answer carefully.  "Taking service with Lucifer would not, specifically, break their contract--an oversight I still have yet to understand--but to some of them, I think--they could have fought yes, but defeat in battle has its own rules."
"Spoils of war," Dean says, expression hardening.  "He'd get their worshippers?"
"It's possible, even if an angel, technically speaking, shouldn't be able to claim them.  Kali, for one, wouldn't have taken the risk; she'd burn her own temples to the ground and destroy her name and self to be certain he couldn't touch them once she was gone."  Dean's skepticism increases.  "The bond with worshippers includes love, however it may be defined, however it might be twisted, and love is neither kind nor merciful.  But they could be those things for those followers; out of love, they might have chosen their own destruction rather than take service with Lucifer or fight him and risk what would happen to their worshippers when they lost.  It would be the one way, perhaps the only way, to free their followers from any possibility of becoming slaves and unwitting agents of humanity's annihilation."
"So your goddess--who doesn't have worshippers or a name and hasn't even been around in almost forever--you think she got involved in this because those women were doing her purpose?"  Dean asks doubtfully. 
"That knife guarantees her presence; more importantly, the novice couldn't have wielded it unless she was acting as avatar or vessel of her divinity on earth.  What I don't know is how they could possibly have elicited her attention at all, especially considering her absence from this entire plane.  They were Christian nuns; while the Roman Catholic church does keep track of gods," he pauses for Dean's shock; eliciting that has become a very enjoyable habit, "her cult wasn't even in existence any longer when Rome was founded, much less the Church.  If there are records of her anywhere in existence, I don't know about them, and without knowing her name, she wouldn't have heard them."
"You're a record, kind of," Dean points out.  "No, I get it; no name she recognizes now, so wouldn't help even if there were records.  Okay, so this is what we have: a nameless pagan goddess showing up to smite the fuck out of some demons who were killing women whose divine service included killing demons, and she used a random novice to do it."  Catching Castiel's expression, he sighs.  "Next you're going to tell me it's not random."
"It's random, as much as someone fit to be an angelic vessel." Dean sighs noisily. "Which means it's not random at all.  The line of descent would have to be from one of those worshippers who bore children while in her service.  She didn't choose maidens, only women, but they didn't interact with men, often for very, very good reasons, not least of which was the reason why they were no longer maidens."
Dean blows out a breath, looking grim.  "So not many?"
"There were some, of course; she had no objection to her worshippers marrying or bearing offspring, but they were a very small cult.  In that much, a portion of the current population would qualify, but there's also this; this woman survived being an avatar of a goddess, and relatively intact if what Alison remembers is accurate."
"Even archangels can't manage to pull that off," Dean observes caustically.  "Or just don't want to?"
"I don't know," he admits under the weight of Dean's judgment.  "The only thing that is required of us is to gain consent."
"So archangels are bigger dicks than I thought."  Sitting back, Dean turns his gaze to the passing scenery, but the feeling doesn't lessen.  "I didn't even know that was possible.  They don't have to, so they don't fucking bother."
Castiel makes a conscious effort to loosen his hold on the steering wheel.
"When given the choice, gods will almost always choose someone that can hold them without permanent damage," he says.  "They make an effort to assure there's at least one person living at any given time who qualifies in that respect.  It's not a break of faith to choose otherwise, but in memory, I can't think of one who did so when not under extreme duress."
"Because that's love: not destroying them, just taking over their bodies and their lives," Dean snorts.  "So what would this goddess need for her perfect vessel?"
"A non-virgin woman of unbroken female descent from one of her worshippers."
Dean whistles softly.  "So that's really specific.  Why?"
"She was--when her cult was founded, she was only one aspect of a much more powerful goddess."  Dean's expression goes from surprised to bewildered to interested in turn.  "For lack of a better term, she--separated herself and became an fully independent entity instead of merely a facet of the whole."
"Gods can do that?" Dean asks curiously.  "That happen a lot?"
"All the time; that's one of the ways the number of gods increase.  They simply don't often succeed."  Dean nods slowly, mind filing that away as he does everything else he learns for later follow-up.  "She was effectively a new god on earth, and like all the gods, she had to start from the beginning and establish the foundation of the bloodlines from those who chose to worship her.  There were restrictions, and she never gained enough power from worship to expand the scope of potential vessels."
"Are there any left?"
"When I Fell, there were six women living who qualified, and two women and three children who could potentially do so," he answers immediately.  
Dean's eyebrows jump.  "Small cult, few kids, but eleven potential avatars?'
"An advantage of being a potential vessel for a god--or for that matter, an angel--is that as long as they exist--and she did still exist--potential divinity does somewhat skew the odds of survival to bear appropriate issue in their favor."  He grins at Dean's expression.  "Angels and gods can also make humans lucky, you might say."
"No shit.  How do you know that, anyway?"  Dean demands, waving a hand as he opens his mouth.  "No, I get it, infinite knowledge, but usually it takes you time to find shit like that now.  Spend a lot of time searching your memory lately?  When?"
"Oh."  He wonders if this is what 'uncomfortable' feels like.  "It's different when it's knowledge I actively--sought for myself."
Dean sits back.  "You tracked her bloodlines?  All this time?"
"I also followed the those that would produce potential vessels I could use," he counters.  "Keeping track of the various bloodlines on earth might be considered the closest thing to a hobby in the Host and among the gods; everyone did it.  Those families with the potential to bear archangelic vessels were very popular subjects, as were those who were fit for use by the more powerful gods.  Not to mention," he adds temptingly in the face of Dean's interest, "their habit of procreating with their followers, which considerably shortened the process of acquiring acceptable vessels.  Zeus's propensity to impregnate anything that qualified as living with a lack of particularity on how or in what form should be explanation enough.  His potential vessels can be found in most of the animal kingdom, if you're curious."
"Like squirrels? Seriously, how--" Dean makes a visible effort and stops himself before focusing on Castiel speculatively. "Right, this was your Friday night in Heaven, sounds great.  But your goddess has been off the radar for a while, and you said she wasn't very powerful in the first place."
"Oh, she was powerful," Castiel corrects him.  "As an aspect of a god, upon separation, she was all that they were when they were first created.  When I say separated, it might be more accurate to say 'rebelled'."
Inexplicably, Dean starts to smile.  "Your buddy was a rebel goddess?  You don't say."
"She was successful in her rebellion--again, translation is somewhat wanting in this case--so she lost nothing.  As far as personal power is concerned, she was a perfect--much younger, for value of 'younger' when it comes to infinity--replica of the goddess she separated from.  She simply didn't supplement it from gaining a large following to offer worship, which is a different kind of limitation."
"Were you watching to see if she came back?"
Cas focuses on the stretch of road before them; potholes do terrible things to the undercarriage.  "She gave up not just her followers but her own name; gods don't come back from that."  From  the corner of his eye, he sees Dean's eyes narrow curiously.  "Two of my vessels served in her temple and bore female issue after entering her service, and three of the women and one of the children who could act as her avatar were among their descendants.  One of them I was considering as a vessel before I chose Jimmy, and she was extremely attractive.  I often wondered if you would have responded better if I'd come to you in a female vessel instead of male."
Dean smirks at him, frustratingly undistracted.  "You're allowed to say it's personal and you don't want to talk about it."  The smirk widens annoyingly.  "And admit it's personal and not about freaky angel hobbies."
"It wasn't personal," he answers shortly.  "I was just a soldier in the Host, Dean, not an archangel; to us, there was no concept of personal.  My contact with her through my vessels made her of interest, but that was true for any contact the Host had with the gods."
"Like Gaius in the Grove," Dean answers, sitting back and turning his gaze to the windshield.  "That was just a mission, nothing personal."
"That was different.  His mother summoned me by name, and Anael was insistent…." He knows from the faint uptick at the corner of Dean's mouth that he lost something, though what, he's not sure.  "What do you want me to say?  You remember how I was when we met; as I was then, I was always.  I didn't think like that."
Dean crosses his arms.  "So you're saying I changed you?"  Before he can answer, he adds, "Frustration.  You told me once before you met me, you had no--what do you call it, 'concept' of that."
"Yes.  I'm feeling it right now, in fact."
"You never felt it before or just didn't know what it was called?" Dean challenges.  "Sound of one hand clapping, Cas; think about it.  So," he adds, turning to face the windshield and bracing a foot on the immaculately maintained dashboard as if entirely unaware how long it takes to remove scuff marks without damaging the vinyl, "how much longer until we get there?"
"Another hour at most," he answers uneasily, trying not to look at Dean's boot drag across the vinyl a full inch before stopping again.  "You can't clap with one hand."
"And if a tree falls in the forest, does it make a sound?"  Dean smiles in satisfaction.  "Tell me what you come up with.  I always wondered about that myself."
From the outside, the church itself looks untouched, but that might be relative, since it's also the only building left standing.
There were five others at one time, if the crumbling remains of the foundations half-buried in dry, dusty earth are any indication, making a square around what was once perhaps a walled garden or courtyard.  The convent itself, of course; the priest's home, depending on how literal the rules of the order or how they strictly they kept them; a guest house, possibly, though there's no way to be certain; and a surprise in a small country parish, the remains of what he thinks might have once been a small school and attached dormitory for its students.  Despite the passage of time and decay, their original architecture is noticeably more modern and utilitarian, as if added quickly and without attempting to match the other buildings.  Preparing for the future, perhaps from the moment Lucifer was freed from his cage: the mystery is how on earth they could have known short of clairvoyance.  The Host certainly didn't bother to offer them divine revelation on ongoing events, considering how little even the Host was permitted to know.
Looking at the once-neat grounds, he wishes he could have met the priest assigned to this parish.  He would have been the one who authorized and encouraged this radical departure from the traditional duties of the Sisters of Mercy for this convent as well as possibly the construction of that school  Preparation, defense, education, gaining training and weapons for the women to fulfill their calling, and sending them into the world with his blessing and support.  A man with this kind of mind should have had the attention of the Host from the moment of his birth, the women here cared for and offered strength and support in their work.
They weren't; a single convent, a single man, in a small parish in rural Kansas were far too small for the Host to care enough to even see.
"Cas?" Dean shuts the door and circles the jeep, coming to his side on the edge of the road, eyes flickering over the crumbling remains and focusing on the presumed school  "Dude, a Catholic school out here?" 
"Zachariah much preferred the period before the Enlightenment," he hears himself say. "Knowledge was why you were throw out of the garden--metaphorically speaking--but that also made it your birthright to acquire, and that was always discouraged.  It was far easier to manipulate those whose faith was untouched by knowledge; they don't ask why, and if they do, they accept answers no matter how inane without question."
Dean looks at him quizzically.  "Not a surprise, knowing Zack."
"Father Francis was a Jesuit; they believe in education, in the spread of knowledge, and this convent benefited from that.  These women were warriors of the Lord," he answers bitterly.  "Here, in this place, they fought for five years against demons after Lucifer rose, and we never saw them.  I was training hunters in Georgia, and I didn't even--"
"Cas…."
"Infinite knowledge," he spits out.  "All I had to do was look, and I didn't.  It was--they were too small.  It wasn't important enough for me to even bother."
"Maybe," Dean says quietly, hand coming to rest on his shoulder, "you had enough to do back then, even if you were still an angel."
"That's not an excuse."
Dean studies him for a long moment before his mouth twitches, curving in a faint smile.  "You really don't do anything half-way, do you?  Called that one."  Shaking his head at Castiel's mystified expression, he squeezes his shoulder before tilting his head toward the grounds.  "Let's check it out so we can get to the church while we still have light."
The sight of the bare, dry earth is disquieting, but the first step is disorienting, a different world entirely, the corruption spreading so deeply it's an abscess in the earth itself, rotten and putrid and oozing filth.
"Cas!"
Castiel thinks, shocked: I didn't realize I could still feel that.
Dean catches him the moment before his legs collapse beneath him, steadying him against his own body until the vertigo passes enough for him to find his balance. Watching him sharply, Dean reluctantly steps back at his nod, but one hand lingers determinedly on his back as the green eyes search his face.
"You sure you're okay?"  There's a sharpness in his voice that demands honesty, and the implication anything less than a definite yes means they return to the jeep without hesitation.  
Taking another breath to be sure, he nods.  "Yes. It was--a surprise, that's all."
Dean frowns and starts to say something before abruptly turning face the church and grounds, lips tightening as his hand dropping automatically to his gun as if he's fighting himself not to draw it.  There's nothing here that qualifies as a threat that would respond to gunfire, but he's learned that instinct rarely succumbs to logic without argument.  
"It wasn't surprise." As Dean swings to face him, he belatedly realizes that Dean had no reason to expect him to have any reaction to stepping off the road in the first place, much less catch him before he even fell.  "Try again.  Tell me what that was."
He starts to answer and stops himself, distracted by the memory of the two days he watched Dean as his body burned out Croatoan.  He didn't lie to him in the bathroom; forty-eight hours is his limit on how long he can go without sleep with only prescription stimulants before speed is required. However that was because while he couldn't recognize his own need for sleep until exhaustion made it impossible to do otherwise, he could recognize the signs of mental degradation, and they kept it at bay.
That's changed, and those two nights made that painfully obvious. He doesn't need them simply to think; now he needs them to stay awake.
The biological urge for sleep, like hunger and thirst, has always been difficult for him to interpret, but until this moment, he assumed that Dean's insistence on strict adherence to a schedule was the reason he now ate and slept at regular intervals and why he needed prescription sedatives less often.  In retrospect, that was remarkably stupid; habit may be powerful, but it's not that powerful, and for that matter, while he's tentatively begun to explore the idea of enjoying food, feeling hunger is still something he has yet to experience.
If 'falling asleep' can be defined as a sense of drifting that culminates in abruptly becoming aware he's cold, stiff, and drooling onto the couch cushion by Dean's hip despite the fact that his last memory was leaning against said cushion reading only seconds ago and yet hours have passed--and thankfully, while Dean was blinking at him sleepily, he didn't seem to notice the grotesque wet patch before Castiel quickly covered it with his dropped book--then he thinks that yes, he's officially experienced the human sensation of sleepiness.
That's new, and he doesn't think he can at this point legitimately pretend habit is another word for 'magic'.
"How does it feel to you?" he asks before he can stop himself.
"Me?"  Dean hesitates, but the tension in his body is too obvious to be denied, and to Castiel's mild surprise, he doesn't even try.  "I don't know.  Weird, I guess."
Dean's concept of 'weird' is both wide in range and narrow in scope; it's all in the inflection, and Castiel's still learning how to interpret it.  "Dean--"
"Wrong."  Dean's expression changes, eyes distant.  "Like it's dead, but it can't die, not really. Even though...it wants to be."
He nods, mouth dry; that would describe it very adequately.  "Corruption.  At this stage, for the earth, it's like living death; it's being consumed until it's almost starved but kept living just enough to be an ongoing source of feeding."
"Sounds about right.  And one more thing." The green eyes meet his.  "It feels like I really don't want you anywhere near it.  That enough for now or can we get this over with so we can leave?"
He can't be certain, of course, but if he were guessing, Dean doesn't want to talk about this anymore.  "Of course."
"Good."  Sliding his rifle into easy shooting on sight position, he jerks his head toward the ruined buildings. "Let's check the grounds first."
The first circuit of the grounds gives them an overview of the scope of the destruction and at least some idea of the sequence of events.  The convent itself was burned first and done thoroughly, leaving nothing but blackened and cracked foundation half-buried in the ground; the school and attached dormitory, on the other hand, were done last, and interestingly, not nearly as completely.  Despite the amount of time that's passed, it's clear that while the fire damaged the structure, its final collapse was due to decay of the unburned wood.
Dean's tension is noticeably increased by the time they finish the second circuit, but he pauses at the edge of the cemetery behind the church with a frown.  Eyes flickering over the twisted remains of the wrought iron fence, he passes over the various headstones without interest before returning to the fence.  Then, shoulders straightening, he looks at Castiel in a silent but unmistakable question.
Obediently, Castiel steps over the twisted remains of the fence and feels the difference immediately; the consecration of the cemetery wasn't broken despite the fact that the church and grounds were and very thoroughly.  The omission is unusual; demons are very attracted to sanctified places for the purposes of destroying them, which he assumes is what passes for a hobby among them.  
Looking up, he sees Dean looking at him, expression unreadable but unmistakably more relaxed.  Apparently talking about it is anathema, but not testing it.
"Consecrated separately from the church grounds and unbroken," he confirms, looking down at the neat line of dead grass on this side of the fence edging the bare earth on the other: the difference between early winter somnolence and corruption, bloating itself on the earth's richness until only the faintest spark remains, content to leave it alive just enough feed from it into perpetuity.  After all, if it killed it, there'd be nothing left for it to consume, and that's all it knew how to do.  "If they'd survived, they would have done it before they left.  Just for completion's sake."
Dean's in front of him the moment he steps back over, but he's prepared this time for the vertigo, but nothing can prepare him for how it feels to stand on a living corpse that only wants to die.
"And we have the answer no one really wanted on what demons do on Friday nights," Dean says grimly, turning away to look at the church, but the hand on Castiel's back lingers.  "Okay, you ready?"
The answer is no, he's not, but that's irrelevant; this is something they need to know.  
"Yes."   Dean didn't need to say: we don’t have to do this now.  You don't have to do this to yourself.  This isn't a test, and if it was, survival is all you have to do to pass.  It's a test, it's always a test, but it's easier to pass when he's not alone.  "I am."
The listing doors creak open at a touch, the heavy wood, while subject to the vagaries of the weather, surprisingly intact.  Which is more than can be said for the interior; even with Alison's verbatim description of the church in Amanda's report, he wasn't prepared to see the reality.
Dean sucks in a breath, coming to a stop just inside the door.  "Holy shit."
The description was unsparing and thorough, yet somehow, it still fell far, far short of what they're seeing now..
The walls are all still intact, peeling dingy paint in strips like shed skin between wide swathes stained yellow-brown from water damage and exposure and blackened streaks and stains of old blood in hideously distinctive patterns.  Frayed streamers of tattered, grey-red fabric from the carpet cling to what remains of the aisle between the decaying remains of the few intact pews at the back of the church, and near the altar that, though subject to exposure, is also intact; those are the only things that still are.
The splintered, blackened remains of what were once pews, clotted with fluttering yellow-edge pages from ruined hymnals, the twisted remains of tarnished candlesticks dotted with the remains of wax, torn strips of the formal vestments of a priest performing mass, the cracked vinyl covers of shredded Bibles and slivers of stained glass from the empty windows, crumble together in haphazard piles around a circle of clean, bare wooden floor in the center of the church, its perimeter outlined in charred black.
Dean's shoulder brushes against his, a single point of reassurance in a place not simply stripped of what it was meant to be, but re-purposed to be everything it stood against.  Taking a deep breath, he forces himself to dismiss the sacrilege committed for the most obscene of purposes and examine it like the hunter he chose to become.
"Right," Dean says, voice startling loud in the lifeless silence.  "Left or right?"
"I'll take left," Castiel decides after accepting both will be equally horrific and he wants neither one.
"Good, that's where I'm going, too."  Shifting his rifle automatically--he's noticeably improved with his weapons--Dean jerks his head for Castiel to follow him before starting toward the wall and the first set of bloodstains surrounding the empty holes where a woman sworn to service to the Lord was crucified.
They came back for the bodies after taking the children to Ichabod, Amanda's report stated.  After Dolores examined them, each body was carefully cleaned as best they could and each woman was photographed, along with as complete a written description of each woman, her clothing, her hair, birthmarks and old scars, anything that might--one impossible day--help identify her to her family or friends.
Afterward, their bodies were carefully wrapped in clean sheets, the town's only Catholic (albeit somewhat lapsed) reading the prayer for the dead before their bodies were consigned to the fire with the entire town present to bear witness.  They didn't have the legal names for any of them;  what the children remembered were those that they took when they joined the order.  The ashes were placed in the town cemetery, covered with salt and buried in consecrated ground, each name carved into the stone that marks the place they were laid to rest.  Teresa and their few religious leaders hoped that would be enough to keep them safe from whatever happened in the church.
"The priest was possessed," Castiel says into the uneasy silence as they come to a pause before the altar after passing the eighteen places where a woman was nailed to die, with another wall and seventeen more to go.  "He must be how they gained access to the church and the convent."
"Yeah, there weren't any men among the bodies," Dean says, balancing the rifle against his shoulder, fingers sliding restlessly along the strap.  "I remember that part from Amanda's report.  Just women, and the kids."  
"The nuns were hunters, and a direct confrontation would have been unwise.  Father Francis was very old, and the other men were laymen who were attached to the church in some way and assisted Father Francis and the Sisters in their calling.  They needed a less dangerous method of gaining access here."
"So they used men the nuns knew and trusted," Dean says in disgust.  "They weren't stupid; they wouldn't have let a stranger anywhere near them, especially when they weren't armed, not if they were hunters.  Son of a bitch, the fuckers must have loved that part."
"From what Alison gathered from the other towns and some traders, Father Francis was instrumental in helping the Sisters acquire weapons and some basic instruction, though she didn't know how or from who. He also joined them in daily practice despite his advanced age."
Dean's mouth quirking faintly.  "My kind of priest."
"Then you'll appreciate how well he was able to manipulate his superiors--including his bishop--to overlook what they were doing here before Kansas was zoned as infected."  Dean's smile widens.  "When he was given--very much under the table, or so Alison gathered from some of those who worshipped here--advanced warning of Kansas's coming status and orders to leave--"
"They stayed," Dean finishes softly.  "Of course they did.  Saving people, hunting things: fuck leaving, they were just getting started."
"The nuns discarded their habits entirely for more practical attire and were armed even during mass," he continues, looking at Dean.  "Which was apparently very memorable to the very few alive who used to occasionally attend mass here."
"Nothing like a nun with a gun to get your attention," Dean agrees, fingers sliding restlessly the length of the strap of his rifle, fingertips brushing the holster of the gun at his hip.  "If we'd known about them, we could have--" He stops short, a fleeting expression of surprise crossing his face.  "I mean you--him, back then, maybe he could have--"
They didn't know, but sins of omission and sins of commission are only different in action, not intention;  they should have tried to find out.  "If even a rumor had reached us, we would have been here to help."
Dean's mouth tightens grimly.  "He surveyed the entire goddamn state and he missed them?  How--never mind." Shaking his head, he tips his head toward the other wall and the seventeen blood-marked spots awaiting them.  "Let's get the other side and the gallery upstairs before we check out the main event."
It says something--though what, he's not certain--that as little as he wants to examine the other wall, it's still more than he wants to examine that clean, black-ringed circle.  "I agree."
Well after they left Chitaqua, it occurred to Castiel they should have acquired Chuck's camera before they left to document the condition of the church so they could examine those as well for anything they might have missed.  As it turns out, it wouldn't have mattered if he'd thought to acquire it or not; even if he'd been holding it in his hands, nothing could have made him actually use it.
(Or as Dean put it, surveying the church floor from the gallery: "Perks of leadership; we make someone else to do it."
"I'm very glad I accepted your job offer," he told Dean, and meant every word.)
He means it even more now, standing only feet away from the reason thirty-five women and five men died two and a half years ago, and four days ago that almost killed the fifteen children that survived.
There's no sign of the actual pattern any longer, replaced by a ring of blackened wood, charred almost through the church floor.  One and a half feet from the outer circle to the inner, the same as the one drawn in Ichabod's courtyard.  Unlike that one, however, the outer circle here is roughly fifteen feet in diameter, the inner twelve: large enough, he supposes, to hold fifteen children in the center, though with very little room to spare.
Stepping into the inner circle--the hardwood dusty but otherwise untouched--he turns in a slow circle before crouching to study the char more closely.  After he Fell, before the gods died, soon after Ichabod was founded: that should be enough to give him something approaching a date, but no matter how often he searches his memory, there's nothing to find.  Even the corruption of the earth--something that can be objectively studied and quantified, the rate of decay measurable--is useless; Teresa possibly was able to stop it if not cleanse it, but even before that, it's--
Impulsively, he opens his sense of time and barely shuts it back down before the migraine starts, but not before dropping to the floor with a strangled gasp.
Not strangled enough, if the sudden appearance of Dean crouching in front of him is any indication, hand on his handgun. "Cas?  You okay?"
"I'm fine," he says, and regrets it when he hears his voice crack on the second word.  Resigned, he waits for his vision to stop swimming, but it's not as if he needs to see to know Dean's dangerously still and is most likely glaring at him.  "Dean--"
"You didn't do the--seeing all things shit again, did you?" he demands, one hand roughly tilting his head up, the better to glare directly into his eyes as well as check for bleeding.  "Tell me you didn't--"
"No.  Just time," he interrupts, adding at Dean's mystified expression.  "I was checking for a time differentiation, and there is one.  At some point, this church was removed from linear time."
Dean blinks at him before looking around warily as his shoulder dips alarmingly, as if it might be in danger of sliding into his hand despite the fact there's nothing to shoot.  "Uh, we're--not out of time now, right?"
"No, I couldn’t see Time where it doesn't exist," he answers reasonably, which inexplicably makes Dean's eyes narrow.  "It's just--off." Dean blinks at him in a silent request for clarification.  "I don’t know how to explain."
"Try," Dean says grimly, fingers tightening on his jaw as if Castiel might pull away and he'd like to keep the bone as a souvenir.  
The television analogy unfortunately won’t work here.  "It was taken out of time at one point in linear time and replaced at some point in the future.  It's future, not ours.  Well, it would be the past now, of course, but then…." Looking at Dean's increasingly frustrated expression, he has a moment of inspiration.  "Like you were, but only in Time, not place."
"Right, so how long--" Dean sits back on his heels, looking into the middle distance before focusing on Castiel again.  "You said 'some point', not what point.  You don't know how much it's off?  Why?  You knew with me."
One day, he's going to tell Dean that he's only pretending to believe him when he pretends he's not as intelligent as he actually is.  Depressingly, now isn't the time.  "No.  Before you ask," he continues as Dean starts to open his mouth, "yes, there are many possibilities for why, including the fact that I have no idea how I can still do that or how it works in this form, but no, I can't narrow them down without more information, including speaking to Alison and Teresa personally about what happened when they found the children.  Or I could--"
"No," Dean interrupts flatly. 
"I didn't even tell you what--"
"Don't care."  The glare returns with a vengeance.  "No seeing Time, no seeing all things, no anything you can't do with five plain old human senses and no bleeding from your ears, got it?  We'll do this the old fashioned way."  Dean's fingers tighten on his jaw.  "Got it?  I wanna hear the words, Cas."
Staring into Dean's eyes, he summons his most earnest expression, one guaranteed to convey both unmistakable sincerity and fuck you at once.  "Yes, sir."
"I'll hold you to it," Dean says pleasantly before straightening and starting toward the back of the church.  "Would hate to accidentally concuss you with my rifle," he adds over his shoulder, "but I won't be sorry for it.  Just for the record."
Dean's method in the church is much like the one he used on the grounds; the first circuit to establish familiarity before a slower second one, pausing at the walls to study each set of blood stains with the experienced eyes of a hunter and searching not for what they can recognize, but for any discrepancies.  The variations on human sacrifice are numerous, but crucifixion, like rape, is always preferred when other forms of torture are inconvenient or when time is not of the essence; he supposes doing both in a church while at least one wore the body of a priest and the victims were nuns is what passes for ironic humor among demons.
Stopping at the altar again on his second circuit, Dean stares up at the remains of the cross on the wall above it with a fixed expression.  Still inside the circle, Castiel frowns, focusing on the wall, and sees the blackened smears of blood on either side of the cross, the spacing of the holes matching those that line either side of the church: that makes thirty-six, but only thirty-five bodies were taken back to Ichabod. Thirty-five bodies, fifteen children, and one young woman, whose injuries didn't include those associated with crucifixion
"Dean--"
"She was up there," Dean interrupts without turning around.  "The novice.  That's where they put her.  Half the nuns were dead, the rest were almost there, the kids were already in that goddamn circle…and she was still fighting to get down to save 'em."
Swallowing, he paces the length of the aisle to join Dean at the altar, mentally scanning Amanda's report again; it didn't mention where each body they removed was located, and it would've mentioned if one of them was above the altar itself.  Following Dean's gaze to the remains of the altar, he pauses, studying it more carefully; despite the dark wood, the blood stains on it are obvious, a spray fanning upward from near the base and sprinkling the floor as well before trailing off at the very top.  Looking down, the floor before the altar is stained with the unmistakable signs of coagulated blood, smeared but each one consistent with the center of the average female foot from the heel to just short of the ball.
Abruptly, Dean turns, looking down at the tattered remains of the carpet, focusing first on the area just in front of the altar before startling toward the center of the church again, eyes tracking the remains of the remaining carpet and then bare wood.  Following, Castiel sees the fading bloodstains that still mark it as Dean stops short, staring at an unstained area of the floor a foot short of the outer circle.  
"She stopped there."  He tears his gaze away to look at Castiel with the eyes of a stranger.  "Tore herself off the wall--that she was nailed to--and walked on two surprisingly unbroken feet all the way here while pulling a goddamn knife out of thin air.  She said yes to your fucking goddess because she wanted to save the kids and didn't care what she gave up to do it."
Even that long-ago day in Dean's cabin when Dean asked him what he was, he didn't look at him like that, as if he was--  "I don't remember."
"That makes one of us."  
Turning away, Dean gives the circle a wide berth on his way to the back of the church.  Taking a deep breath, Castiel forces himself to move, stepping into the circle and crouching as if to study the char again, though all it tells him is fire was involved at some point; the design itself was burned away entirely.  It's an excellent excuse, however, to pretend not to hear Dean as he approaches, footsteps echoingly loud in the silence before coming to a stop directly behind him.
After an eternity--or thirty endless seconds--Dean sighs.  "Jesus, this place--you done yet?  It's char, nothing to see here." Then, with an attempt at annoyance, "For the five regular old human senses, anyway."
"I'm not human," he answers flatly before pushing himself up off the floor and making himself turn around.  "However--"
"Look, this place…" Dean turns to look back at the open doors briefly, expression unreadable.  "Something about it--you being here, it's getting to me, okay?"
Disarmed, he nods tiredly.  "It's unsettling, yes, but--"
"I don't mean--it's not..." Dean scowls, eyes drifting toward the doors again before snapping back to Castiel. "I don't know what I mean, but let's wrap this up before I knock you out and drag your ass out of here, okay?"
That's--unambiguous.  "The circle isn't active.  At least, not now."
Dean's eyes narrow.  "That's not the same as 'gone'."
"I was trying to ease into the subject," he admits.  
"A for effort," Dean says, not quite rolling his eyes.  "Now tell me what that means."
"The corruption of the earth isn't expanding, but it's not healing itself, either," he starts.  "Even if Teresa decided against trying to purify it after they found the church, her presence would have been enough to elicit some kind of response, but as it was then, it is now.  This is--it's as if the corruption is in stasis.  If I were guessing--which is exactly what I'm doing--that's because while the circle was destroyed here, it still exists, just not now."
"You even know what you mean?"  Dean looks at the blackened outer ring, shaking his head.  "So what your goddess did wasn't enough?  Divine fucking fire?  You can't even see it anymore."  
"I'm not sure--"
"It killed the demons pretty thoroughly," he adds in surprise as he scans the area around the circle again.  "Not even ash left--not that we'd be able to see it in this mess--"
"They didn't die in the fire," he interrupts.  "I don't need to remember what happened to know that.  She didn't need a full manifestation complete with avatar to kill them; she could do that with a thought without leaving the comfort of non-corporeal existence.  This was an execution, and to observe all the formalities, she had to be on this plane to do it."
Dean closes his eyes briefly.  "I'm gonna regret asking this, but…."
"It's what I'd do, if I had Grace and the permission of the Host when I was among their number," he answers.  "Or even after I rebelled and simply had Grace and this kind of motivation."
"Anytime now, Cas."
"There are no human remains of those possessed by the demons, even ash," he explains indicating the entire church.  "She broke the binding between soul and body on this plane to free the souls but not the demons before moving them out of time with the demon still inside.  The physical body can't survive that without protection, as I explained before, but she only needed it to contain them until they were beyond any possibility of escape."
"And then?  She killed them there--wherever that is--instead of here.  What's the difference?"
"The goal of a formal execution isn't death, it's justice."  Dean sucks in a breath, eyes widening in understanding.  "She hunted them down one by one and killed them there.  She's still hunting them and then killing them there.  Long after she died by Lucifer's hand, she will be killing them anew.  As Gabriel did to you, she does to them in a discrete pocket of time built to that purpose, but the loop never stops with death before starting anew and they never forget what came before.  It hasn't stopped and will never stop, without a moment's rest or freedom from fear or pain."
"Kind of like you did to that guy in Michigan?"  Castiel nods; there are similarities, yes.  "How long?"
"Forever," he answers softly, meeting Dean's eyes and seeing the flare of satisfaction that matches his own.  Of all people, Dean may be the only one who would understand.  "Until the end of reality itself."
"If reality wasn't trying to end now," Dean says finally, breaking the comfortable silence, "that'd almost be enough."  Flickering a glance at the walls, his face darkens.  "Almost.  So tell me more about what they were doing before they got fucked by a goddess."
Castiel calls up the memory of the completed circle in Ichabod, tracing the design over the burn line.  Almost effortlessly, a polished wooden floor stretches out below his feet as pews are ripped up and tossed aside to make more space, carpet stripped away by eager hands.  Blurred, indistinct figures work together to draw the circle with slow, patient strokes, the individual sigils flowing from the stark white paint--paint, not chalk, another difference from what happened in Ichabod--this time starting at the north--the direction of the altar--and moving counterclockwise to the east, the symbols entered confidently with experienced hands.  Until they reach the east--
"--and stopped," he says tonelessly, vaguely aware he's been talking but unable to remember when he started or why.  "They entertained themselves with raping them while waiting for it to dry--they had to wait, because the nuns were protected against possession.  That's why they used paint; they couldn't risk a single smear, and the nuns would find a way to break it no matter how badly they were injured if they used chalk."
As if from a distance, he feels Dean's hand on his shoulder, fingers reassuringly tight.  "Keep going."
"They…."  For a moment, he has a multiple visions of ghostly feet crossing in and out from what feels like a dozen perspectives, stumbling or dragged, digging their bare feet into the wood, scratching at it with broken fingernails as they passed; some were carried, bound and still fighting, too dangerous to risk forcing them walk despite being uncertain it would still count if it wasn't done under their own power.  Low, malicious laughter interspersed with pain-soaked, enraged screams echoe through the church for hours--days--as they were raped and tortured, whatever the demons could imagine without risking a too-early death that would make all their work useless, giving the sacrifice more power, before one by one each woman was nailed to the walls of the church.  
Hours--days--a week, perhaps: it doesn't matter.  It felt like forever.
Finally, a single vision dominates, clear and hard, edged with rage and fear so strong it burned away physical pain; each half-conscious child (they didn't have time to hurt them, too. It took days to find them, she didn't hide them well enough, her fault, she should have learned more before she….) was carried inside the circle and placed within the inner circle before the last quarter--the closing sequence--was drawn, in chalk this time, because--
Mouth dry, he looks at the wall above the altar.  "--once closed, it was done.  That only brought it into existence; once it existed, it didn't matter if the lines were erased.  I was too late."
Even divine fire couldn't destroy it, they realized: nothing could, it was new, and how they created it was unique.  All that could be done was-- 
"….Cas?!"  There are hands on his shoulders, squeezing with the strength of desperation, and he focuses on Dean's voice, then his face, green eyes wide and dark in a face washed of color.  Blinking, he realizes they're both on their knees.  "Cas, talk to me!"
Licking his lips, he tries to speak, but for some reason, he can't form words; how strange.
"Cas, you got to three and I'm dragging you out of here," Dean snarls, cupping his face with shaking hands.  "You tracking yet?  One, fuck it, we're leaving--"
"It…" He swallows at the thready sound of his voice, barely a breath, and forces himself to focus.  "They had to forget it."
Dean stills.  "What?"
"It couldn't be destroyed, because once it was completed, it didn't just exist here," he says as the blurred details slowly click into place.  "That's how they did it.  They weren't sure it would work, but it was worth the risk to find out, and it did." He closes his eyes, realizing he's shaking: has been, possibly for some time.  "When I saw it, I knew it was the first time it had ever been attempted."
"It was new, yeah."
"Yes, but not just that."  Dean nods encouragingly and slowly, painfully, he retrieves knowledge he wasn't even aware he had.  "All but one segment was completed before they began to make them enter it.  They used--"
"Paint," Dean interrupts.  "So the nuns couldn't fuck with it, yeah."
So he was talking that entire time: good to know.  "They put the children inside and closed it immediately; they were almost out of time before their absence was noticed, I think…." She must have ripped that part from their minds, but the jumble of unorganized images is impossible to organize, bring into focus.  "I'm sorry, I can't--"
"You got nothing to be sorry for," Dean tells him fiercely, giving him a shake.  "Don’t even start.  Now deep breath--what else?  Why were they dragging the nuns into it if they were just gonna hang them on the goddamn wall?"
One deep breath doesn't help; several, however, do.  "Something new.  When it was complete, everyone who was within it and everyone who had passed through it before were bound to it, and it was bound into them.  Once the circle was closed, it burned itself into their memories, and that's where it still exists in everyone who entered the circle before it was closed.  All of their minds hold it, and  the only way to destroy it there--"
"--is to kill them, which would also complete the sacrifice, son of a bitch."  Castiel nods tiredly, a faint throb starting in his temples from the effort of locating knowledge without the memory of acquiring it to give him guidance.  "Wait--everyone within it and everyone who was in it and left before it was closed?"  He nods again.  "You mean all someone has to do is walk through it before it closed and they're part of it?"
"That marks them enough for the circle to be lodged in their memories upon completion.  He swallows, fighting down nausea. "I don't even remember being here, but I apparently learned a great deal."
"The nuns and the novice watched the whole goddamn thing live and in person," Dean says quietly, squeezing his shoulder again.  "What they knew, I guess your goddess got from them, and she must have given it all to you to help her figure out what this was before she fucked with your head."  He pauses, glancing toward the altar briefly.  "How were they going to do it without the novice, though?  They had to know she wasn't in Ichabod; were they gonna go look for her next or something?" 
"The novice wouldn't be part of it, even if she'd entered the circle before it closed," he answers, relieved beyond words to be on sure ground. "Being the avatar of a goddess does have some advantages; this only binds a human, not a divine being.  It was burned out of her the moment she became a vessel."
"I'll give you that one."  Dean cocks his head, eyes distant. "Okay, let me see if I got this.  Those kids were still in the circle when your goddess started smiting; they were already marked as sacrifices by that.  The nuns were in it before it was closed and taken out, so they were marked when the circle was completed and the hanging them on the fucking wall was just entertainment and more pain equals more power, am I right so far?"  He nods at Dean's glance.  "So that circle they were drawing in the town square during the attack, it wasn't big enough to put anyone in, which makes sense now; they didn't need it to be big.  The kids didn't remember what happened in the church, much less the circle, so they had to draw it again so they'd remember it."
"They had to redraw the circle either way to give it form on earth, but to connect it to the original, the children had to see it as well as remember it.  Once the connection was made, it's as if it had never been erased, with all the original properties--and chosen sacrifices--of the original."  An arrested look on Dean's face tells him he recognized that much. "You only notice it when its worst form is seen, as I told you.  Though no one's ever used it like this before."
"Contamination."  Dean sighs in disgust.  "Okay, let's go back. How much has to be complete for it to start marking the sacrifices?  Ballpark?"
"At least over half, I would assume, but….."  Dean nods grimly; there's no way to know for sure without testing it themselves.  "From what I could read of it, the final segment of symbols are the closing sequence, and must be done all at once to complete closure.  When we have time, I'll reproduce it to study it closer--"
"Uh," Dean looks alarmed.  "You think that's a good idea?"
"No, but it's not dangerous," he answers, mouth quirking faintly.  "The other reason new innovations in human sacrifice aren't common is humanity's lack of knowledge on the meaning of all the symbols, much less formalities of their design.  Whoever created this one not only knew those, they also knew conventions that haven't been used on earth for a very long time.  This one has restrictions specifically excluding anyone not born human from using them, a variation of those I carved on your ribs as well as Sam's.  Like you, it's invisible to a god or an angel not in corporeal form and looking directly at it."
"Anti-angel and anti-god?" Dean sits back, startled.  "That's really old shit.  So that hasn't been used in--"
"A very long time," he agrees.  "The most ancient rituals created on earth often featured such measures, but for obvious reasons, that innovation wasn't popular, and among the gods and the Host, it was agreed that knowledge shouldn't pass to future generations. Those rituals were buried as deeply as possible in human history along with the knowledge of what they meant."
Dean reaches for his chest, palm flattening over his ribs almost unconsciously.  "You didn't tell me that when you started carving up my ribs.  That was forbidden?"
"Dean, I'd just rebelled against the Host, been killed by archangels, and resurrected without explanation," he answers, grinning helplessly at Dean's quiet laugh.  "Ask me how much I cared about archaic restrictions."
"Not much."
"I taught Bobby as much as he wished to learn--which, as you can guess, was everything--but the majority of it has value only in defense.  I think I still have the notebook he used for his notes, if you wish to see it."
"I kind of do," Dean admits, rubbing a hand over the back of his neck before shaking himself.  "Until you get a chance to draw your own copy, can you tell me anything else?"
His smile fades.  "The final closure has to be done all at once, which is one of the few hard limitations I can see in the design.  It can't enter their memories and exist there until it exists in this form  first."
"Not really a limitation if we're talking--" he looks around the circle, eyes narrowing, "--fifty, sixty feet around?  Last segment is--"
"One quarter of the whole."
"Eleven, twelve feet, that's nothing, a couple of minutes…." Dean breaks off, looking at him, then at the circle again.  "The one in Ichabod was smaller.  How long was the closure?"
"A quarter of the whole."
Dean stills.  "And if it was bigger…?"
"A quarter--"
"--of the whole, I really don't like where this is going.  You're sure about that?"  
"Yes.  The closing sequence is of a different pattern than the whole.  Think of it as a binary door; it's closed or open, but nothing between.  It's a compromise; instead of having to do the whole at once, they only have to do a quarter at once.  Not a bad trade-off, in a horrific sort of way."
Getting to his feet, Dean turns in a slow circle to take in the circle again.  "The one in Ichabod had three or four sets in the exact same sequence before the closure…." He looks at Castiel.  "How many on this one?"
He pulls up the memory of the completed circle again, ignoring the instinctive revulsion.  "Ten, with more space between the symbols, though not much; they were more experienced with drawing ritual circles.  I can't tell the significance of that on a glance, however."
"Shit." Dean closes his eyes.  "It's a repeater.  You can keep repeating the same goddamn symbols over and over again to get it bigger as long as each set is complete." He spears Castiel with a look that begs for contradiction.  "Including the closing ones?"
"I'm not sure," he prevaricates, but that's not an answer.  "However, it's either that, or the number is the same, but each one is simply very large.  It's very new, and since the sacrifice was never completed, only the creator would be able to tell us what he designed it to do, and only the first time it was completed successfully would he know if it actually worked."
"Let me get this straight," Dean says with fragile calm.  "At half-done, it's ready for business and you don't even have to stay in it to be marked.  Once it's closed, everyone's part of it, even if all they did was walk through it without knowing it.  Even if it's erased--by divine fucking fire--everyone who was marked can be hunted down one at a time, draw that thing again so they can see it, use their memory of the original to make the new one become the old one, and kill them then.  And there's no limit on size?" He nods reluctantly.  "All the fucking benefits of human sacrifice, none of the inconvenience of having to do it all or nothing."
He nods again, feeling impossibly tired.  "That would be it, yes."
"Right."  Taking a deep breath, Dean scans the church before extending a hand.  "Okay, we're getting out of here."
He takes Dean's hand and is surprised how much he needs it, stumbling briefly. "Dean--"
"No arguments," Dean interrupts, hand shifting to his upper arm and pulling him unresistingly to the door. "We're going home. Anything else you need to know, it can wait--"
"We still have a problem, and it won't wait." Making an effort, he stops short and is almost pulled off balance by Dean's momentum.  "Dean.  It doesn't exist now, but it does still exist. The children remember it now, even if they didn't before.  If it's drawn again in their presence and they see it--"
"It's back, fuck."  Dean closes his eyes.  "Even if we got all the demons this time, no way they're the only ones that heard about it."
"They're still in danger, and not only because they're still bound," he agrees.  "Everyone who saw even a portion of the design in the courtyard now has the memory of it.  It can't hurt them, since they weren't part of that sacrifice, but any demon can read it from their minds and no demon who saw it wouldn't know what it was as well as exactly what it can do."
"Fuck.  We gotta get to Ichabod."  Pulling away, Castiel crouches and reaches into his boot, feeling the edge of the knife sheathe for the small lump beneath it.  "Cas what are you--"
Pulling out the keys, he straightens and presents them to Dean; it's almost worth not driving to see the expression on his face.  "That's why you couldn't find them."
Dean's eyes narrow before flickering down to his boot in unmistakable speculation.
"I'd like to see you try," he adds, tipping his head toward the door.  "Let's go."
They're almost a quarter of the way to Ichabod when Dean finally says, "What if we're wrong?"
Turning from his contemplation of the badly degraded road, Castiel frowns.  "About…?"
"What if other demons know about this already?  If they're using it--"
"They aren't."
Dean jerks his gaze from the road.  "How the hell would you know--"
"My fallen Brethren would purge their territory at a hint of something like this being spread among their followers," he answers. "A human sacrifice that may only be limited by the physical size of the initial circle, and once closed, marks the sacrifices in a way almost impossible to remove, and who can then be hunted down and killed at their leisure?  The first time it was successfully completed on earth, there would be no way to hide it from them, and if there'd been a purge in Hell of that magnitude, we would know about it."
"Forgot about that," Dean bites out, fingers tightening on the steering wheel. "Torturing demons for fun and profit at Chitaqua, why not get the gossip while you're at it?" 
"Exactly."
Dean's the first to look away, but it doesn't give the satisfaction that it should.  Several miles pass in echoing silence before Dean finally breaks it.
"Cas, how many people were part of this one?  Nuns and the kids, that was it?"
"Assuming Alison was accurate on the number of women's bodies they took from the church, fifty, including the children they rescued."
Dean frowns out the windshield, but he doubts its due to the execrable condition of the road.  "And how much power would that give a run of the mill demon these days?"
"Not enough to challenge an angel in Hell," which makes Dean start, "nor the most powerful and oldest demons, but sufficient to claim territory in Hell from less powerful ones.  Possibly even enough to carve out territory of their own and force the submission of lesser demons to gain sufficient followers to protect it.  However, the first time it's completed in its entirely, Hell would notice that much power acquired that quickly and wonder why.  They'd have one, perhaps two more opportunities to use it before they were tracked down from the contamination of using death and pain for power, especially in these numbers."
Dean nods, swerving reflexively to avoid a pothole the size of a small car.  "You were right; the church was a test drive to see if it worked. Probably why they did it at that convent; out in the middle of nowhere, not much of a congregation showing up every day, limited numbers, no chance of interruption--who could call the entire goddess showing up thing--"
"I could be wrong."
"Dude, I learned not to bet against you the hard way," Dean says, tossing him a smile. "The only thing I couldn't figure out is why they didn't start a new one instead of taking the time to go after the kids in Ichabod, but…." He pauses.  "Formal execution, that sounds like the kind of thing you don't make mistakes doing.  Like letting one of them get away."
"No."  That much he doesn't need to remember to know.  "Even if one of them wasn't at the church at that moment or tried to escape, performing a human sacrifice doesn't just contaminate the earth, but those who did it.  There's nowhere they could hide that she couldn't follow them, and she would've found them."  
"What about the creator?  If he wasn't there…." Dean snorts, shaking his head.  "No way he shared that before trying it himself.  Or ever."
"Unless the other demons killed him before attempting it at the church, yes, but I doubt he told them enough for them to risk that.  What does that have to do with…."  For once, following Dean's train of thought is almost effortless.  "So how did those demons in Ichabod four days ago know about it at all?"
"The original group sure as fuck didn't share with the class before they died," Dean agrees.  "Doesn't mean they didn't drop hints, though; threat of a purge just means it spread slower.  How long has it been in Hell since then?"
"Roughly three hundred years, maybe as much as four hundred, depending on when this happened," he answers, looking at Dean curiously.  "You think they were following a rumor in Hell?"  
Dean snorts.  "You got a better explanation for risking going into Ichabod to get those kids three to four hundred years later?  They weren't guessing, Cas; they were sure enough to send four hundred something Croats and six demons to make sure they could finish it."
"There's always the possibility that a demon, for no particular reason, recently went to the remains of a destroyed Kansas church and worked out enough to become uncharacteristically curious and made an impossibly stunning intuitive leap to draw the correct conclusion."  Dean gives him a disbelieving look. "I didn't say I believed it."
"Or they came here following that rumor," Dean says, slowing to search the darkness outside for the turn-off.  "Church would be enough to tell them it was true, but not enough to actually do it.  Question is, how the hell did they get the symbol if the kids' memories were wiped?  Everyone else was dead."
"The novice survived," Castiel answers quietly.  "And so did I."
Dean starts to answer then abruptly seems to change his mind.  "Yeah, might as well just ask.  Cas," he says, voice stripped of expression, "did you trade an unspeakable ritual for a human sacrifice to a demon for drugs?"  He cocks his head, looking thoughtful.  "That's how you been getting your scripts?  That explains a lot."
"Of course not, the border guards are perfect happy to…." He narrows his eyes as one corner of Dean's mouth twitches upward.  "That wasn't funny."
"It really was.   I think we can safely exclude the avatar of a goddamn goddess and a Fallen angel from trading this, considering that if you can't remember it, I doubt she can either.  If she's still alive, anyway."
"That's probably the reason I don't remember," he admits, and Dean's faint smirk vanishes. "As you said earlier, I'm a living record.  My brethren in Hell have no knowledge of its existence, so that rules out any surviving demon, and I assure you, none would have survived that night.  If she guessed--or I told her what it could do--that would have been a very good reason for her to want my memory altered.  As the likely alternative was killing me, that would be one very good reason I'd agree to do it."
Dean jerks his startled gaze back the road just in time to note a very inconveniently placed boulder that looks like its origin was the Red Hills, though what it's doing here is anyone's guess.  Swerving onto the shoulder with a muffled curse, he waits until they're back on the road before looking at him incredulously.  "Your goddess-buddy would have killed you just because you saw it?" 
"Hell's ruled by corrupted angels," he explains.  "The last angels in all existence, in fact.  She wouldn't trust a Fallen angel to resist them for long, or perhaps even want to.  They are--technically--still my Brothers."
"Bullshit.  They got no claim to you," Dean says softly, but the ripple of anger in his voice is unmistakable.  "And she didn't know you very well if she thought you'd do that.  Dude, you need better friends, just saying."
"That was a long time ago," he answers, unsettled and warmed at the same time. "I think you might say I've upgraded since then."
Dean grins at him, and for a moment, Castiel almost forgets what they found at the church tonight.
"There aren't any secrets in Hell," Dean says suddenly, returning to the original subject.  "Three hundred years: someone knew about this all this time, so why now and not anytime in the last couple of years?"
"This isn't just a secret," he says slowly, not sure how Dean will react to this part.  "Demons began as human, and even Hell can't burn out the part of you that will be ruled by no one but yourselves.  Humans aren't meant to be ruled by angels, even as demons, and obedience is enforced by fear and pain, loyalty bought and sold to the highest bidder, which is the only way angels can control the population of Hell, which considerably outnumbers them."
"It's worked until now."
"It's worked," he answers deliberately, "because the rulers of Hell are angels who kept their Grace when they followed Lucifer to Hell; unlike demons, for whom it takes time to gather power in Hell and it can be easily lost, theirs is effectively unlimited.  However, angels haven't broken a human soul on the rack since they first acquired enough followers to do it for them."
"Demons are better at torture, thanks for the reminder," Dean says glumly, easing onto the edge of the road to avoid the large area of missing asphalt in the shape of a hexagon.  Looking out the passenger side window, Castiel wonders if a ruler was used at some point; those are very straight edges for someone ripping up asphalt freehand.  "What does that have to do with--"
"In return for their service, those first demons were given power, and those that have survived have continued to acquire it since.  Angels may rule Hell, but those demons effectively run it for them, and they assure no other demon ever gains enough power to challenge them even  if they were to band together, which granted is unlikely, but why take the risk.  Something like this, however…."
"Cause some problems for the status quo for demons, yeah."
"Not problems, and not just for those demons," he says softly, getting Dean's undivided attention.  "We're in an Apocalypse, and there are few secrets in Hell, including that Lucifer wants to wipe humanity out.  No bodies for demons on this plane, all existence confined to Hell, and that's only if Lucifer doesn't purge Hell as well.  They have to suspect that much, and the rulers of Hell would be stupid enough to threaten that to assure such loyalty as Hell defines it, because despite their power, fear and pain are the only things they know how to use.  Dean, this isn't a problem; this is revolution."
Dean catches his breath.
"It takes millennia for a demon to gain power, and only the most ruthless ever gain enough to have territory.  None of them, however, can hope to challenge the oldest demons, those who were given power by my Brothers and run Hell for its rulers."  Castiel licks his lips.  "Not until now."
"A demon could get enough power from this to take out the most powerful demons?"  Dean searches his face before abruptly stopping the jeep in the middle of the road, turning in the seat.  "What?"
"Not with fifty sacrifices, no.  But once they knew how much could be acquired from fifty, it would be a matter of math to decide how many deaths would be needed so they could. A single sacrificial circle that can be of any size, take any number of sacrifices, and once it's closed, the deaths could be accomplished over days, weeks, even months…."
"Draw it around a town in the infected zone," Dean says tonelessly.  "One demon could do it and have all the time they needed to kill everyone afterward no matter how many there were."
"And no one in Hell would know about it until it was completed," he says.  "Which would give everyone just enough time to try to run.  Except my Brethren, of course, but they might surprise me by showing some amount of intelligence and doing just that."
Dean stares at him.  "They could get enough power to kill an angel in Hell?"
"Yes, but--"
"Which would leave the rest to get together and go after whoever did it, so what would be the point--"
"That would only be a problem if you killed them."  He looks at Dean.  "So don't. They're far more useful still alive."
Dean stares at him.  "What?"
"The power from the sacrifice would eventually run out, but the Grace of my Brethren in Hell replenishes itself," he answers.  "Why kill them when you could break them and force their submission to your will; then you'd have at your command the Grace of an angel as well as all that they rule in Hell." 
Dean licks his lips, eyes never leaving his face.  "How--"
"I told you; demons began as humans, and obedience is enforced with fear and pain; it's the only way to control them.  Angels in Hell, however, are still angels; they were created to obey. Demons have had millennia to re-create the tortures of the rack in their own image; what it is now is beyond what it was when it began."
"Hell's first tortures were how angels were disciplined in Heaven."  Dean swallows, eyes dark.  "For disobedience."
"You can only suppress the instincts of an angel for so long.  They were made to serve humanity, and demons are, in some ways, even more attractive; they were remade in the image of angels.  A demon who could break them would get their willing submission; they'd obey not because of pain or fear, but--"
"Devotion." 
Looking at Dean, he nods; if there was ever a demon that Hell would willingly kneel for, it would have been Alistair's apprentice.  

"We do respond well to being forced to kneel and obey," he says more lightly.  "You of all people should know that."
After a long moment, Dean smiles faintly.  "Dude, I'm trying here, but this coming from the guy who told Lucifer to fuck himself to his face…."
"I have no objection to kneeling, you understand," he says idly.  "In certain contexts, at least."
Dean snorts before putting the jeep in drive and starting down the road again.  Stopping at a crossroad--or rather, a road crossed with what may or may not be a cattle trail--Dean carefully eases past the oversized tumbleweed formed of barbed wire and what seems to be kitchen appliances.  
"Would Lucifer?" Dean asks softly, staring out the windshield intently.  "Could a demon break him?"
"He's still an angel," he answers, equally soft.  "What it would take to do it would be interesting, but ultimately academic.  He'd kill himself first, and in any case, it would be both quicker and far easier to simply kill or Cage him."
There's a brief hesitation before Dean nods.  "Right."  Peering out the windshield, he starts to smile, and Castiel, following his gaze, sees the faint sprinkle of lights in the distance.  "Well, you ready?"
"Not yet," he answers quietly. He's never ready, but it doesn't matter.  "When we get there, I will be."
@@@@@@
--Day 138 B--

It's just an hour short of midnight when they arrive in Ichabod, which means either waiting for the patrol or deliberately crossing the ward line and seeing how long it takes for patrol to notice strangers wandering down Main Street. Which may or may not end with them being shot, though he assumes they'd be sorry afterward.
Fortunately, Dean decided against causing anyone post-murder anguish, which is why patrol finds them leaning against the hood of the jeep when a flashlight abruptly illuminates their faces, Dean with his arms crossed and looking annoyed.
"Dean?" a familiar voice says, and the too-bright light is immediately averted toward the ground.  Blinking the spots from his eyes, Castiel makes out Amanda as she gazes at them in surprise, one of Ichabod's teams hovering behind her.  For a minute, he hesitates, studying her, a sense of something different dancing across the surface of his skin that he can't quite identify.  "Everyone stand down," she orders, looping the gun over her shoulder as the team with her does the same.  "Hey, what are you doing here?"
"You run patrols now?" Dean asks, rubbing his eyes ostentatiously.  "Not that I care or anything, but--"
"Mark took the kids this afternoon so I could sleep before taking the night shift.  Manuel wanted a night off," she answers, beginning to smile.  "Mercedes just found out she's pregnant."
Dean's faint frown evaporates.  "How far along is she?"
"Twelve weeks, so she's pretty sure it'll be okay," she answers, matching his wide grin.  "After the last few days, we needed some good news.  There'll be a party on the next rest day, but tonight's was family."  Amanda looks between them, smile fading.  "Everything okay?"
"We gotta talk to Alison and Teresa," Dean says with a sigh.  "She gonna kill us if we wake 'em up?"
Amanda's eyes unfocus for a heart-stopping moment.  "No, it's fine.  Give her a few minutes."  Felipe, you're in charge until I get back."  Felipe salutes playfully, punching Amanda's shoulder as he passes them toward Ichabod's perimeter.  "I'll walk you down."
"Great," Dean says, looking at Castiel for confirmation before adding, "Hey, tell her we're sorry for showing up this late before you tell me when you started giving Alison an all-access pass to your head."
Amanda's shoulders stiffen.  "Dean--"
"What's Alison's range, Cas?"
Coming up beside him, Castiel stares at Amanda for a long moment.  "At least a mile with any reliability, but to be safe, behind Chitaqua's wards would be the my preference to assure there's no possibility that Alison--"
"I volunteered," Amanda interrupts, looking between them worriedly. "She didn't manipulate me, I swear.  It's just an experiment."
"An experiment."  Amanda's eyes widen at whatever she hears in Castiel's voice.  "You consented to what experiment, exactly?"
Amanda shifts uneasily.  "It's all or nothing, she said; she can shut everyone out or hear everything, and she needs to sleep, but since the attack, it's been tense.  It's just a test to see if she can hear patrol if there's an emergency, that's all."
Castiel nods agreeably.  "So she can wake up even if she's closed her mind entirely?" Amanda nods hesitantly.  "Right arm below the elbow: let me see."
Amanda swallows before carefully removing her rifle, setting it on the ground between them before sliding her right arm out of her coat and pulling up her sleeve.  Reaching out, Castiel takes her wrist and turns it to reveal her inner arm, aware of Dean beside him, frowning at the smooth expanse of winter-pale skin before looking at him curiously.
"You can't see it?" Dean shakes his head, lips tightening as Castiel draws a line across the barely-healed cut just below her elbow.  "Blood was the binding: shallow cut, just enough to make a symbolic offering.  Teresa's a strict traditionalist; if you can't see it, it was done with full and knowing consent of both parties."  
"Ritual magic."  Dean looks at Amanda's pale face, eyes narrowing.  "That's a little more complicated than a psychic learning how to listen for someone specific."
"Dean, I didn't mean--"
"Alison can't yet."  Letting go, Castiel takes a deep breath, fighting to keep his voice calm.  "She isn't nearly experienced enough to filter that specifically; this required a very skilled witch."
"Five minutes," Dean tells Amanda as she pulls her jacket back on.  "Exactly--and I do mean exactly--what you consented to and when."
"This evening before I went on patrol, she asked me and Manuel if we'd be okay with trying something, to get around the block she puts up to keep the town out until she's better at filtering all the mental traffic from everyone," Amanda says carefully, watching them both.  "It was Teresa's idea how to do it, but she wasn't sure if it would work with me at all without a blood relationship like Manuel, so I made the offering.  It's just a--like an indicator, wakes Alison up if I think directly at her or if something upsets me, but Teresa wasn't sure of the threshold or if that last part would even work."
"Active versus passive," Castiel tells Dean rigidly.  "The first is simple, if difficult to accomplish; the second isn't simple even when there's a blood relationship.  Alison--through Teresa--would need to be subconsciously monitoring your emotional state constantly to first get a baseline on you specifically before narrowing it down to only trigger at specific levels of emotional intensity.  That would take weeks."
"She said something about that, but it isn't supposed to last longer than morning when she breaks it," Amanda agrees, licking her lips nervously.  "That's why this is a test; she never tried anything like this, but she…look, she said she got the idea from you.  Cas, I'm not an idiot; she explained the whole thing and the risk; the worst that could happen is it wouldn't work."
Castiel stiffens, but aware of Dean's flickering glance, confirms with a slight nod. Taking a breath, Dean turns to Amanda, who visibly fights not to shift in place under the cool gaze.
"You didn't think you should check with me?" he asks neutrally, but it's enough.
"No," she answers, voice subdued now.  "I didn't think about it.  I should have asked permission first, I'm sorry.  I get my first responsibility is to you and Chitaqua."
"It was your call to go ahead with it if you wanted to," Dean answers, surprising them both.  "You wouldn't be in command here if I didn't trust your judgment, but with great responsibility comes great--other shit, like making sure your commander knows what the hell you're up to.  You tell me first, because you're ours first, and it'd be nice to know when you're about to do something stupid.  You understand?"
Amanda blinks at him, disarmed.  "Yes, sir."
"Not like I have enough hunters now," Dean mutters after a moment of silence, shoving his hands in his pocket to glare at the ground.  "It makes a shitty impression to have one of my lieutenants suddenly go crazy, you know?"
"Right," Amanda answers immediately.  "I knew that.  She's breaking it at dawn, if you want to be there."
"I will definitely be there," Castiel says shortly, getting both of their undivided attention. Dean cocks his head, like he's about to speak, but before he can, the warm lights of Alison's home spill across Main Street in the distance.
"Amanda," Dean asks, still looking at Castiel, "anyone around who can send a message to Chitaqua? Joe knew we'd be late, but overnight might be stretching it."
"Uh." With an effort, Amanda thinks for a moment before nodding.  "Kamal's up."
"Not Kamal," Castiel answers.  "I need you both here tomorrow."
"Leah," Amanda says after a moment of thought.  "She wanted to get a couple of things from home anyway, say hi to Joe.  I'll wake her up; it'll make her night." The blue eyes look between them warily.  "Should I--"
"We'll talk again tomorrow," Dean interrupts, squeezing Castiel's shoulder before he starts down the street.  "I'm gonna go say hi to Alison right now.  Cas, we'll be inside; take your time."
Castiel watches Dean jog toward Alison's building for a moment before returning his attention to Amanda, whose alarm abruptly returns.  This shouldn't take long.
It doesn't.  "Look, I didn't think--"
"That it would affect anyone else, other than the need to provide our contingent here with a new commander or losing another hunter?" he asks caustically, and Amanda takes a startled step backward.  "Trust isn't the same thing as safety; even with the best intentions, what Teresa did was new to her, and you could have been injured.  At very least, you should have requested a deferral to consult with others before making your decision."
"I should have sent a message to ask permission," she agrees quickly. "I get that now, I just--"
"No, you should have sent a message asking for me to come to Ichabod immediately, so they could explain, in all the detail I required, exactly what they wanted to do to you," he interrupts impatiently.  "Then I would have explained it to you, including the risks, so you could make an informed decision on whether to proceed, and if you decided to do so, been present during the initial test to assure your safety.  I'd expect you to insist on that much."
Amanda belatedly shuts her mouth.  "I can do that?"
"I spent five months training you to protect yourself as well as others against anything you might have to fight!" he bursts out before he can stop himself. "You have no defenses against a psychic that powerful or a witch; no matter how good their intentions or how pure their motive, there is always and will always be a risk.  You can't protect yourself from that, but in this case, I could have done it for you!  Of course you can do that!  You're supposed to do that!  Is it that difficult to understand?"
"Oh.  Right, got it." She shifts again, biting her lip before peering up at him, a flicker of humor in the blue eyes.  "So in the morning, you'll tell me if it's okay to do again?"
"I'll evaluate the risk and give you my opinion after observing the process and speaking to Teresa and Alison.  After I'm satisfied as to Teresa's intentions as well as the safety of what she asked you to do, we'll talk about it, and then you can decide whether you wish to continue."
"Okay," she answers promptly.  "Sounds good."
"You can go," he says finally, not sure what to add that he hasn't already said; repetition would be perfectly acceptable, but Dean's waiting inside and she's supposed to be on patrol.  Also, Joseph will be worried about them if they don't send a message.  "Have a good night.  I'll see you at dawn."
"You, too."  As he starts toward Alison's building, however, he hears her add, a thread of warmth in  her voice, "Sorry for scaring you, Cas.  I won't do it again."
Before he can answer, she's vanished into the night.
When he arrives, Teresa is on her way to making up the guest room for them after ushering Alison reluctantly into the kitchen and a convenient chair, "…if you make your ankle worse--again--I'll tie you the goddamn bed until it heals.  I'll make the tea when I get back."
"I'll do it."  Activity, he's learned, is a superlative ameliorator of stress, and he's familiar enough with the kitchen to find the tea and set a kettle on the gas burner to heat.  Turning around, he sees Dean and Alison staring at each other across the kitchen table with matching expressions.  "Dean?"
"Oh, just checking that Alison gets I'm okay this time with messing with my people's heads," Dean answers evenly, never looking away.
Alison rolls her eyes.  "Can't read your mind, Dean."
"Right now, I wish you could," he answers sincerely.  "You get the only reason I'm even marginally okay with this is Teresa, right?  Her oaths are strict when it comes to harm, and she wouldn't do something like this unless it was imminent death or zero."
"I know, and I should have asked you first."  After a moment, she sighs, sitting back with what he hopes is a frown of profound guilt.  "It's temporary, lasts a day at most even if we don't break it.  This was just a test; symbolic offering, no commitment, just--"
"Do you even understand the rudiments of what you and Teresa engaged in tonight?" Castiel says flatly, watching Alison stiffen. "You don't, or you would never use the word 'just' when speaking of anything that requires a free offering of blood."
Alison's jaw tightens mutinously.  "Cas--"
"It was Amanda's decision to agree to your request, but it was yours to ask her the question, and that carries a degree of responsibility in the outcome," he continues, keeping his voice even with an effort.  "Especially since of the three of you, only one of you had any idea of the seriousness of what you engaged in, and what she was doing was based, at best, on a guess from what you sensed from Dean."
"I had more than that," Teresa says from the doorway, introducing herself into the room and the conversation before crossing to the table and seating herself to Alison's right and reaching absently for her hand, lacing their fingers together.  "If you need to apportion blame, it's mine, not Alison's; it was my idea, and I convinced her to try."
"I think there's blame enough for you both," he answers, ignoring the way Alison stiffens, fingers closing more tightly around Teresa's.  "Alison had no reason not to disagree, after all; the only risk was to Amanda."
Dean glances at him briefly before returning his attention to Teresa and Alison.
"If there'd been any risk to Amanda, I wouldn't have done it," Teresa says, voice hardening.  "I know my craft, Castiel; I've practiced it my entire life."
"That you can say that means you know nothing!" he snaps.  "The earth is old, Teresa, but it is hardly more than a child compared to me.  I was there when it came into being; do you think I don't know what it is?  There's no guarantee that the earth's priorities would include protecting Amanda if you made a mistake, however unwitting."  He swallows, remembering the church again, the women there who were forgotten before anyone even knew that they existed at all.  "It is vast, and it is ancient, and she's a single breath in all time and space; it doesn't know her, how important she is to those here, how--how we'd be lessened in her absence.  It knows you and Alison through you, it can't not, but Amanda? She's small, do you understand that? It can't even see her!"
Teresa's eyes widen, defensiveness vanishing. "I would have made sure it saw her." 
"I'm certain you would have tried," he says bitterly.  "You must forgive me, however, for not giving the earth the benefit of the doubt on how much it would care, for value of 'care' with an entity that has no context for it."
"You know what it is," she agrees, "and you also know that's exactly what I am: context."  Even in oversized sweatpants and a flannel shirt over a sweater, black hair twisted into a loose braid, Teresa gives the impression of stillness, dark golden-brown skin smooth in lines of highly trained calm habitual to the point of reflex.  When she meets his eyes, the sheen within the brown of the iris doesn't make her any less human, but simply more; a curiosity alien to all that is mortal, fragile, that lives and breathes on the surface of its skin peers out as well, watching him as carefully as she does.  He wonders what it sees when it looks at him, if it's offended a being so foreign to all it is dares wear the skin of those born to its ashes and its dust. "That's why I exist, Castiel; so it knows what we are, what we need, and that's not just because it's got nothing else to do.  From the earth we came, and to it we return; it can't not care, not since we were first created from it.  It wants to know us."
"Cas," Dean says quietly. "Kettle."
Startled, he turns to see the kettle starting to vibrate with the boiling water within and hastily removes it from the gas, turning off the burner with hands not entirely steady.  As he starts to search the cabinets, Dean is abruptly beside him, hip-checking him before reaching for the mismatched cups himself and setting them safely on the counter.
"You okay?" he asks quietly, standing casually between him and the women at the kitchen table.  "Tell me the call and I'll make it."
Slumping against the counter, Castiel takes a deep breath, then another, forcing himself to consider it dispassionately.  "If Amanda were in any danger, it would have occurred immediately, not several hours later.  She's safe."
"Not what I asked," Dean murmurs, stepping closer until Castiel has to look at him.  "You want me to get her back here and they break this now?"
"Teresa was accurate in her assessment," he admits.  "I do know, and that should be enough."
"It's never enough," Dean corrects him.  "Not when it's someone you care about." He inclines his head toward the table.  "Come sit down, have some tea, breathe a little.  Do your dead eye stare at them for a while; it's creepy as shit and it'll freak them out."
"I don't do that," he protests, picking up two of the cups.
"You know, I get why angels always had to say 'be not afraid'," he says thoughtfully, getting the other two cups.  "After seeing that, probably only way people didn't drop dead of a goddamn heart attack."
He frowns. "I never noticed."
"Now you know," Dean says cheerfully, shoulder brushing his as he goes to the table. "So enjoy it."
Castiel ignores the charged silence as they sort through the cardboard box of tea bags, choosing their favorites from the variety available.  To his surprise, Dean picks over them for several seconds before fishing out two, dropping one in Castiel's cup and then his own.  
"Try this one," he says as Castiel pours out the water in each cup. "Tell me what you think."
He considers the novel idea of Dean having opinions on tea as he fills the kettle with more water before setting it on the stove and turning the gas burner on.  He suspects this conversation would be improved by alcohol, but not necessarily anyone's ability to think, so tea it will be, and probably a lot of it, if for no other reason than to give them all something to do other than look at each other.  There's a pattern regarding his visits to Ichabod, he thinks; at some point, surely he'll get better at not offending anyone within moments of arriving.  Stranger things have happened, like learning sugar makes everything better and how to fall asleep.
When he returns to the table, he picks up the cup curiously; though still steeping, the fragrance is very pleasant.  "Black currant."
Dean shrugs.  "Mom liked it.  It's weird what you remember, but that smell--it took me a while to track it down."
Castiel considers his cup for a long moment before putting it down again to finish steeping.  Alison's glare indicates they've lost several steps in the progress of their relationship; he supposes adding 'accusing her girlfriend of being stupid and terrible at her job' to 'threatened her with execution upon meeting' wasn't the best choice in reactions, all things considered.  
"I will require a complete explanation of what you did," he starts, "its structure and requirements, the expected results as well as the actual, and for that matter what you were thinking in the first place and exactly how it relates to what you saw in Alison's mind regarding what she sensed in Dean."
"Both of you," Teresa corrects him mildly as she removes the teabags from hers and Alison's cups before placing them on a chipped plate apparently present for that purpose.  The brown eyes study him for a moment before she inclines her head. "I should have spoken to your first about that.  I meant to during your last visit…." The flash of pain is muted, but Alison shuts her eyes tightly, reminding him abruptly it's only been four days since the attack, less than three since quarantine ended and they burned the bodies of their dead. "Paranoia doesn't lead to clear thinking, and none of us have done much of that.  I know better than to--"
"It was my decision, too," Alison interrupts, squeezing Teresa's fingers as Dean dumps both their teabags on the same plate and starts adding sugar to both cups.  "It wasn't your fault.  And I thought," she adds, turning her glare on Castiel again, "that by now we'd have earned the benefit of the doubt. Maybe less in the way of execution threats?"
"He didn't threaten to execute her, Jesus!" Dean answers, dropping the spoon. "What the hell, Alison?"
"Not yet."
"You think he shouldn't be a little upset?" Dean asks incredulously.  "Fucking with Amanda doesn't fall under 'benefit of the doubt' here; Cas sure as hell had every right to question what the hell you thought you were doing.  Using blood's serious shit; you know it's the bodily fluid with the most potential for mystical abuse?"
Castiel just avoid spitting out a mouthful of tea at the familiarity of the words, frantically fighting not to choke as Dean adds self-righteously, "So don't tell me we don't have some grounds here to be concerned!"
"Bullshit," Alison snaps back, ignoring Teresa's frantic squeezing. "We got enemies enough, Dean; we sure as fuck don't need our supposed allies turning on us for one goddamn mistake!"
"A mistake?" Dean exclaims, half out of his chair and oblivious to Castiel's attempts at a significant glance to indicate this isn't necessary. "You gotta be kidding me!"
"Teresa," he says over Alison's not-entirely-reasonable response, "I apologize for reacting as I did.  It was a surprise, and after tonight, I seemed to have reached my limit on those."
"…don't tell me how to run my town!" Alison shouts, chair scraping back emphatically as she continues to clutch  Teresa's hand.  "Who do you think you are?"
"It's fine," she answers, glancing up at Alison when Dean answers with something both very short and extraordinarily obscene before picking up her cup with her free hand.  "I'm sorry for not speaking to you and Dean first.  Amanda's become a friend, and that's who I asked to help, not one of Chitaqua's officers and representatives in Ichabod.  I forgot she had other responsibilities."
"…and you were the genius who invited us into your town!" Dean yells back, bracing a hand on the table with an audible thump. Castiel winces, taking a sip of tea.  "You're lucky we didn't conquer your asses for the fuck of it!  So that'd take Cas about an hour: I'll give him the rest of the day off before we take over the rest of Kansas!  Week, maybe two, we'll talk about who knows what, how about that?"
Teresa gives him a querying look.  "I was being hyperbolic," he murmurs in resignation.  "At least a little: transportation alone would slow our conquest a great deal.  As I was saying, under the circumstances, your actions were perfectly understandable.  And a credit to Amanda as well.  You've been very welcoming to her and our people here, and we appreciate that a great deal."
"…when I'm done with their minds, they won't be able to find their asses with both hands! Or remember what asses are!" Teresa winces, biting her lip.  "So fucking try it, Winchester, I fucking dare you!"
"She can't even step on a spider," Teresa mutters, closing her eyes.  "I have to take them outside so they can live and be free.  She makes us watch The Bridges of Madison County once a month and cries the whole time." He makes a note to find that movie; Meryl Streep's performance was supposedly sublime, or so several very trustworthy websites assured him.  "You and Dean made good choices on who to send."
"They all speaks very highly of the your town," he continues, trying to ignore Dean's unsettlingly convincing plan to salt the earth where Ichabod once stood as a warning to those who cross him.  This is not a moment he would appreciate being corrected on several misconceptions on the feasibility, and that doesn't even include the existence of a witch with a bond to the earth being in residence who might object to poisoning the earth in front of her.  "He spent hours explaining in detail to everyone at the camp what would happen to them if they made anyone in Ichabod so much as nervous.  The only reason we're allowed to be armed is it was in the agreement with the alliance and the entire point of our being here at all."
Alison smiles at Dean, all teeth. "Bring.  It.  On."
"Amanda is very much enjoying living here," he tells Teresa's pained expression. 
Teresa smirks over the rim of her cup.  "I'd say so, yeah."
"As well as the residents," he adds casually, and Teresa's smirk widens knowingly.  "Or so she's told me, in startling detail."
Teresa bursts out laughing, and as Castiel takes a satisfied drink from his cup, he realizes the kitchen's now unexpectedly silent. Looking up, he sees Dean staring down at him with an expression drifting between angry and bewildered.  A quick glance at Alison verifies she's looking at Teresa in a very similar way.
"You're done?" Teresa asks sweetly, raising her eyebrows, and Castiel watches, fascinated, as Alison's mouth snaps shut, hot color spreading across her face not entirely the result of anger.  "Tea's getting cold.  Sit down and drink some.  Now."
"It's very good," Castiel agrees, retrieving Dean's chair--which has inexplicably slid back several feet--and nudging the back of Dean's knees with it to indicate he should sit down before Castiel has to apply enough pressure to make him.  To his relief, Dean does so without the need for additional measures, and if he's not mistake, the flush isn't entirely the result of energetic shouting of useless threats to any and all who would oppose him (that being Alison).  "The tea, I mean," he adds, pushing Dean's cup in front of him.  "An excellent choice: thank you.  You should have some."
"Anytime." Warily, Dean takes a sip, eyeing a subdued Alison on the other side of the table uncertainly.  "So--everything okay?"
"Yes," he answers, turning to Teresa.  "I--"
"Any chance you'll get to the point of this little visit?" Alison asks, glaring at them both before jumping slightly, tossing an uncertain look at a serene Teresa.  "I mean, please tell us.  We truly want to know.  Please."
Dean's left eye twitches, but a very gentle nudge to his ankle seems to cut off whatever terrifyingly explicit threat he was considering as a viable response. "What happened four days ago--we think we know what happened, or part of it anyway."
Alison's hostility fades as she searches Dean's face.  "Right.  You went to the church?"
"Yeah." He looks at Castiel..  "You want to start?"
"No, not at all," he says, setting down his cup with a rattle. "The first thing you need to know; it might not be over yet."
Teresa lets out a breath when they're finished.  "Whoever said there's nothing new under heaven lied."
"An angel probably inspired it," Castiel tells her as she looks mournfully at her empty cup before going to retrieve the kettle.  "They always lie."
Alison's mouth quirks, murmuring thanks to Teresa as she refills her cup before looking at Castiel curiously.  "So using memory to keep it active--I'm guessing that's different."
"It's a creative solution to the vexing problem of interference in ritual human sacrifice," he answers as Dean selects their teabags.  "However, as with all things, there is a price to be paid for every advantage.  From what I've read from the design, the requirements are very strict regarding killing those marked after the circle is completed if they don't or can't do it immediately It's a risk that a more orthodox version wouldn't have; the victims can't simply be killed or die in any way other than according to very specific criteria or it fails and unmakes it all."
"The memory needs to be active," Teresa interprets, nodding.  "And they don't forget it, for that matter."
"Both, though the second is assured by ritual itself when the memory is first created," he answers.  "To recreate the original, the circle must first be completed anew and the victims must see it. That triggers conscious recall, which is required to connect the newly created circle to the original and bring it back into being, and only then can the victim be killed and their deaths qualify for inclusion.  It does still has one component in common with all others, however: it's all or nothing when it comes to the victims.  Everyone marked is part of the whole, and one single death outside those parameters makes it impossible to complete and unmakes it entirely."  
Dean drops his teabag on the plate with a thump.  "So one breaking their neck after getting away--"
"A revoltingly ironic way to unmake this, yes.   And considering the mind of a demon, probably a perfectly acceptable as far as limitations go."
Dean grimaces as he finishes adding sugar to Castiel's tea.  "No way out but death.  Including being killed by someone who wanted it to fail and knew how to make that happen."
Alison takes a drink, looking grim.  "I told Amanda everything I could remember about what we found at the church, but I can show Cas what I saw directly if that would help…." Startled, he fumbles his cup at the casual offer, tea spilling over the edge.  "What?"
Ignoring Dean's curious look, he takes the towel Teresa offers and wipes up the tea as he tries to work out how to explain what should be obvious.
"Generally," he starts, "you don't simply--offer up your memories to anyone who may want them.  You shoot them, in fact: I think we've discussed this? I know Amanda drills you weekly on the firing range; your progress is excellent, by the way."
"I knew you were behind that," she mutters, scowling at him.  "Cas, I show you shit all the time during our--that thing we do when you're here.  What makes this different?"
"It's different," he explains patiently.  "That's for your benefit, and your consent limits me to exactly what is required to teach you, nothing more and nothing less, and that gives you protection."
"Then I consent to you seeing anything you want!" Alison says in exasperation before he can stop her--or even realize there was something he would need to stop--before picking up her cup again.  "Though maybe after I slept? Reliving that…before breakfast, though."
Castiel closes his eyes; you can explain in small and very easily understood words exactly what not to do--in their mother tongue, even--and yet, humans give blood, memories, and consent in blank check form at the drop of a hat to whoever may ask. 
"Cas?" asks he who didn't even bother himself to ask why Castiel wanted his blood that day for the wards and showed as much interest in his reasons after the fact as before, which was none at all.  
"Tomorrow," he says shortly; perhaps by then, he may be able to frame a better explanation of why one doesn't give consent to even Fallen angels to do what they will, since historically that's exactly what they do and never, once, has that ended well for the human in question.  "Teresa, what did you sense at the church grounds?"
"I've never felt anything like that before," Teresa answers, eyes distant.  "The corruption was too large to risk cleansing alone, but I've checked it regularly, and it hasn't spread."
"It was wise of you not to take the risk," he confirms, seeing the lingering guilt; a witch bound to the earth would feel that as a failure no matter how necessary.  "Anything you accomplished would have been temporary at best; as long as this exists, so will it.  You also have greater responsibilities that must take precedence."
She shrugs, staring at her cup as the tea steeps into the water.  "I know.  It doesn't help."
"How'd you find out about it anyway?" Dean asks Alison, smiling in satisfaction at her guilty start. "That's what I thought.  You do more when you're sleeping than I do awake these days.  Any reason you didn't mention this before, like when we got here?  A warning would have been good here."
"Dean, it was years ago," she argues with muted heat--probably as a result of Teresa's warning glance--before reaching for the sugar.  "Pretty soon after we settled here, in fact, and I gotta tell you, since then, not exactly unusual to find whole towns wiped out."
Castiel gives Dean a sidelong glance.  It's becoming an effort to remind himself Dean's only been here four months, but Dean's face doesn't reflect any surprise.  "You went looking even after you settled here?"
"Church set a precedent, I guess," she responds, playing nervously with her cup.  "We'd hear things, go check it out, see if there was anything we could do.  Usually that was just burning the bodies, but sometimes, there'd be survivors.  We'd bring 'em here; not like we didn't have room."
"'Hear things'?" Dean asks mockingly.  "Really?"
She makes a face.  "Sometimes euphemistically, but yeah. If I'm gonna dream the goddamn future so I can fix it, might as well get to doing just that.  Why not?"  She raises her eyebrows challengingly. "Like you wouldn't do the same goddamn thing."
Of course she would do something, and becoming mayor has only increased the scope of her activities, and he doubts her leadership will ever be other than by example, the more dangerous the better.  He makes a mental note to speak to Amanda about arranging with Teresa regular time for Alison on the training field as well and verify exactly what she knows and what she's capable of doing now.  Teresa and Manuel would have seen she knew the basics, but it was probably difficult for both of them to be objective with family, and Alison would take advantage of that uncertainty, since from what Amanda's said, Alison is not overly fond of exercise and the outdoors.  
"Fine, got me there." Dean blows out a breath, aiming a rueful grin at Alison.  "Go ahead; tell us about your dream trailer of the church." 
"It was--I'm not sure how to explain."  She glances at Teresa, hazel eyes unfocusing briefly before she nods and returns her attention to Dean.  "Teresa and Manuel had just arrived a few days earlier with another group, and…" She grimaces, looking at Teresa again.  "You were doing your thing that you do."
"Listening to the earth," Teresa says patiently, a sigh in her voice.  "That was only during daylight hours, however.  I was actually sleeping that night.  I think I mentioned once or twice I hadn't actually practiced that part of my craft since I finished my apprenticeship.   It was exhausting."
Castiel tries and fails to imagine sitting for hours doing absolutely nothing but communing with the earth.  The sheer tedium….
"They knew what I meant," Alison objects.
"I didn't," Dean volunteers, getting a dirty look from Alison.  "Keep going.  What happened?"
"I woke up," Alison says, rolling her eyes at Dean's scowl.  "Obviously.  I knew the signs of something I needed to do, but this was--stronger.  And you," she says to Teresa, "were awake in the kitchen."
"To get some milk," Teresa says, glaring at Alison in return.  "You're the one with the weird visions, I just listen to the earth."
"And it talks back!"
"And I'm the one with a fallen angel," Dean says, looking between them.  "I win forever, okay? And--wait, why does it even matter?"  He cocks his head, studying them before he starts to grin.  "You just met--you didn't know what either of you were, did you?  That's when you found out?"
"Pretty much," Alison answers sourly.  "Teresa kept asking me if I was okay--"
"You looked upset."
"You try having a strong compulsion to explain you dream the future--and don't get the details--to someone you've spent a week trying to convince you'd make an excellent life partner!  While your brother was hovering every goddamn time I went near you!"  Teresa's mouth twitches as Alison looks at them in remembered outrage.  "They didn't give details about what happened before they came here, which join the party, that was everyone here, no one asked.  I thought it was some nice, garden-variety homophobia from Manuel--you know, normal bullshit." She snorts, looking eerily like Dean for a moment.  "Like it could be something that simple."
"I hear you," Dean commiserates.  "So it was--wait, did you say compulsion?"
Castiel straightens; he assumed that was a figure of speech, but as Teresa's partner, she wouldn't use that word lightly, not anymore.  
"Every time I opened my mouth, that's all that wanted to come out," Alison confirms as Teresa nods agreement.  "Ten minutes of that, Teresa had a choice between being creeped the fuck out or trying to work out what was going on.  Thanks, by the way," she says to Teresa.  "I never did tell you I appreciated the part where you didn't go for your gun when I started freaking out on you in the middle of the night over warm milk and toast."
"I recognized what it was," Teresa tells them, curling her fingers through Alison's reassuringly.  "Since I was the object, clear questions and physical contact helped clarify what she needed to tell me while repressing the memories, which I assume is why she put it on herself."
"Generally, clairvoyance isn't concerned with the continuing mental health of its bearer," Castiel says, surprised. "I wondered how she managed to avoid--"
"Cutting my wrists in a heroin bathtub?" Alison interrupts sweetly.
"Yes," he agrees, ignoring her scowl as Teresa nods.  "You think she's deliberately blocking the memories?"
"In the Valley seers weren't uncommon," Teresa says. "I worked with enough of them to get an idea of what they could do, and I was called in for a few when they first manifested.  It wasn't rare for them to block themselves entirely if what they saw was traumatic enough, especially if there wasn't anyone they could trust enough to tell what happened to them or would believe them if they did tell."  Her expression darkens in remembered pain.  "The ones that didn't decide on another option, that is."
The modern era isn't so different when it comes to those who are different, and true clairvoyance has rarely been anything other than a burden.  Even during times they were believed, acceptance was always at whim; serving an emperor or burned alive, it was always a matter of luck even if they survived the horrors their own minds inflicted upon them.  And even then….
"In any case, this time a compulsion allowed her to tell me before she forgot it, without having to remember it herself," Teresa continues in a more normal voice.  Taking a sip from her cup, she shakes her head.  "It's not impossible for someone to do it without training, the human mind is--"
"Like that," Dean agrees briefly, fingers slowly loosening from their tight hold on the cup.  "So she told you what happened?"
"Of course not," Teresa says, lips curving in a mocking smile.  "When does that happen? No, a very brief--but very detailed--description of the church and the grounds, that there was something we needed to do there--not much there, but after seeing it, I think I can guess why--and a rough idea of where it was.  Luckily, there's a Catholic church in Ichabod, and I used the diocese records to find it.  Not all that difficult: only place in Kansas that had a bishop's personal authorization for Father Francis to open and supervise a rural school for indigent children with funding provided by an anonymous donor into perpetuity."  She grins at Dean's mystified expression. "You're not Catholic; let's say I can imagine the reaction here when a rural parish priest gets a bishop telling everyone to leave him alone to do his good work; talk about jumping a few levels of very important-in-their-own-minds bureaucracy.  The letter was hilarious if you know what you're reading: no one can formally say 'fuck off and God bless you' like a pissed bishop to a whining local priest not happy he couldn't get a recalcitrant parish priest recalled and then finds out said priest got his school approved and fully funded."
Dean grins appreciatively.  "¿Si vas a hacer, haga con huevos?"
Teresa laughs delightedly.  "Spanish for tourists stuck, huh?"
"Shut up, your mom taught me that after the thing at the diner when I asked for eggs." Taking another drink, Dean taps a discordant rhythm on the table.  "Got anything else on Father Francis from that church?  I'd really like to know how long he was working on this."
"Not much, but I'll show you what we have," she assures him.  "Anyway, Alison figured out I wasn't just another resident, and all things considered, took the witch thing really well."  Alison gives her an incredulous look, and Teresa's mouth twitches.  "Actually she said 'whatever, but are you interested in me?'  While I was breaking and entering a church, by the way, to track down her dream location.  Because that was the important part."
"It was to me," Alison protests, and from the corner of his eye, he sees Dean hide a grin behind his cup. "Anyway, we had location, so I woke Manuel up--and I apologized for calling him a homophobic dick and he forgave me when I assured him I didn't have any intention of burning Teresa for witchcraft--and we went to the church.  It was--" She hesitates, looking at Teresa. "Teresa almost passed out when we stepped on the grounds; Manuel caught her just before she hit the ground."
"Yeah, you can thank me for Cas not having a bloody nose," Dean says, eyes darting to Teresa, who's frowning uncertainly.  "Something else?"
"Yes," she says slowly, staring at the surface of the table intently.  "Before that--just before I stepped on the ground--I thought…." She trails off, frustrated, then looks at Castiel.  "It was now, had been, would be, always.  It was nailed into the earth and the sky, unmoving, until we touched the ground.  Then it was--now-now."
"Cas?" Dean prompts, and he realizes he's been quiet for too long.  "What?"
"Time differentiation, but I've never heard it put like that," he answers, wondering at the very distant possibility he isn't interpreting Teresa's explanation correctly.  "It broke when you stepped on the earth there?"
She nods. "Never felt anything like that, but the earth--let's say it confirmed what it was."
"When you entered the church, how long did it appear to have been since the slaughter?"
"Last death was two to four hours earlier," Teresa answers. "Rigor mortis hadn't set in on any of them when we got Dolores there, and she used that to get a rough time of death for all of them when we got them back to Ichabod. Best guess, they were all within six to twelve hours of each other, but how long it was outside the church grounds…."
Castiel sits back in his chair.  "The earth didn't know?"  Then, at Teresa's raised eyebrow, "It didn't tell you?"
"Which would normally injure my professional pride," Teresa admits, folding an arm on the table and resting her chin in her hand.  "In this case, though--and keep in mind translation is sketchy when you're speaking to something that has no sense of time as singular instead of cyclical--it didn't notice it. Or possibly wasn't supposed to notice, that wasn't clear."
Taking a drink from the cooling tea, he thinks wistfully of far less stressful times, when his decisions only extended to the number of sexual partners in any given room and who would top.  He also remembered those times existing, which is a feature he never realized could be optional instead of mandatory.  "What you sensed was a fixed point in time, a kind of bubble, and grounded in the earth itself.  Within it, time ran on a different scale, though at this point, there's no way to be certain on the difference.  What was a day for them may have been weeks, even months here.  Your arrival was apparently an indicator to bring the church and grounds back into the regular time stream, but whoever did it didn't compensate for the differentiation.  Or rather," he adds, "may not have been alive any longer to fix it."
"And that means…." Dean trails off invitingly.
"It's younger than the rest of Creation," Teresa explains, with the ease of someone who's lived for years with someone who often required such explanations. "Not much, though: a quarter year, I'd be able to tell from the differences in the earth myself, and Castiel…."
"Cas," he corrects her absently, fighting down frustration with his lack of knowledge.  "I should be able to tell no matter how much--I think--but observation states less than two months.  Six weeks, if I were guessing, which I am."
"How much power does something like that take?" Dean asks curiously, taking another sip from his cup.  "The time bubble thing, I mean."
"Almost nothing.  It's practically useless, in all honesty.  To put in human terms, it's the equivalent of a parlor trick."  He bites his lip, amused by the incredulity reflected on Alison's and Dean's faces as Teresa hides her amusement at the same behind her cup.  "Remember the frame of reference for the immortal is very different.  It's generally used by the gods--and Gabriel, who possibly perfected the use--as a facet of extremely elaborate practical jokes on each other. Using it on humans was also an enjoyable pastime, but they couldn't really appreciate the full range of a joke that could last centuries."  Despite himself, he has to fight down a smile, keeping his expression rigidly impassive; for the first time, he thinks he can understand the appeal.  "Eternity is a long time, and even gods can become bored, I suppose."
"Better than an amoeba," Alison murmurs, one corner of her mouth quirking slyly.  Ignoring Teresa and Dean's quizzical looks, she cocks her head.  "Remind me before you leave: we got a couple of copies of The Three Stooges and I grabbed one for you the other day.  Got a TV at Chitaqua by any chance?"
"We just acquired one," he agrees, intrigued.
"Tell me what you think after you see them," she says with a ghost of a smile before returning to the original subject.  "Okay, time was stopped at the church for six to eight weeks, is that what you mean?"
"Slowed, not stopped," he corrects her absently and immediately becomes the center of attention.  "Think of time like a river: if a dam was built, the output of power needed would be immense just to keep the pressure from destroying it, as well as require constant attention and maintenance."  He sits back, slotting it together.  "Stopping time is also very, very noticeable; it's rather obvious when a river stops flowing and bears investigation as to the reason."
"Hard to miss?" Dean offers.  "Might as well put up a sign saying 'something interesting's going on here'."
"Complete with fireworks and a chorus, preferably Greek, yes," he agrees, warmed by Dean's smile.  "Slowing time, however, is different; it's simply changing the speed of passage in a discreet space.  To even see it, it'd be like looking at a large river and finding the slowest point on a glance; you'd have to know it was there to find it and exactly where to look.  There's no way to tell without investigating whether it's a natural characteristic of the river or artificial, and why would anyone bother unless they were in on the presumed joke, since that's what they generally were?"
"Time has slow points?" Alison asks slowly, looking pained.  "Chemistry was at one, physics was eight in the morning; sue me, I'm not a morning person."
"Don't trouble yourself," he tells her earnestly.  "You were at least two centuries from accidentally breaking cause and effect while expanding your understanding of special relativity; have you seen Groundhog Day?  It was like the director was there. I can point out the relevant scenes if you have a copy available."
Alison stares at him before she slowly begins to smile.  "And it all started with sitting on a toad."  
"One hundred and seventy-four million gallons per hour per square mile," he agrees, smiling back.  "For three hours, thirty two minutes, and fifteen seconds, roughly."
"Do you need us here for this?" Dean asks, green eyes telling him that they'll be revisiting this topic in private for a full explanation one day.  "Moving on from--both of you being freaks--let's go with this not being a practical joke of the gods, just so I can sleep at night."
"It wasn't a joke, but it would have looked like one on the off-chance anyone saw it and knew my Brother," Castiel assures him as he takes another drink. "Everything in that church was consistent with her purpose, except those children; that's what doesn't fit.  Those woman were the foundation of her claim, and the execution of those demons was just.  That was all she would have been interested in--in a sense, it was all she could be interested in--so why fix that point in time afterward?  And for that matter, use time to hide it?  Gods generally don't think like that."
"That's why it was slowed, not stopped," Dean says in a strange voice.  "Hide it…Alison, this town, all of you are here because there wasn't anywhere else to go, right?  What was the reaction to those kids when you brought them back?"
"We almost had a war on Main Street when we brought them home," she replies with a faint smile, remembering.  "The older kids told us--those nuns, they were hunters, but they didn't just save them from whatever killed their parents.  The nuns never told them this, but the older ones heard enough to--the towns wouldn't take them, even the ones their parents lived in before they died.  Sometimes their own relatives…." She takes a breath, the flash of hot anger there and gone in an instant.  "All of us here--we knew what that was like to lose everything, even our homes and some of us our countries.  Let's say the kids were really surprised we almost had fistfights in the street over who got to raise them."
Dean nods, mouth softening.  "That how you got your trade network started.  The kids: you started working on contacting other towns, spread the word that there was still somewhere for the kids to go with the church gone, search towns when you heard something went down.  I wondered about that."
"We'd only been here a little while, and there weren't many of us.  Enough dry goods were left behind and some gardens still producing for us to be okay, but that wasn't gonna last forever.  The future--what future did we have, just surviving ourselves was hard enough, you know?  And even wanting to…." Dean nods.  "The kids, though--babies need milk, kids need food, and they couldn't survive on their own; if we were gonna save them, we had to save ourselves to do it.  So that's what we did."  She shakes her head.  "Word spread.  We never turned anyone away without damn good reason.  Side effect: regular contact with the towns close to us made us familiar--kids help with that kind of thing, I noticed--and half the battle was won right there.  From there, it was easy to build up trust."
"Bread upon the water," Dean says, smiling.  "You found those kids a month after you settled here, right?"
"About six weeks, give or take," she answers, looking amused.  "God, those first weeks….we all huddled in the buildings and didn't even go outside if we could help it.  Me, Neer, Sud, and Rabin would go days without seeing anyone else.  Get out, stock up our supplies, cook on a fire in the fireplace downstairs, stay away from rooms with windows."  The hazel eyes grow distant.  "Then--out of nowhere--the lights came on." 
"Tony and Walter got the grid up."
"Yeah, for five seconds.  Then it overloaded and lights out, except--" She sits back, eyes fixed on the table.  "Five seconds, I looked around and saw my best friends and I were sleeping on a pile of clothes and mattresses in a room with peeling wallpaper, with a pile of empty plastic bottles and crap we couldn't be fucked to throw away because why bother.  Animals do better than that.  We weren't living, we weren't surviving; we were marking time until we were dead."
Dean takes a sip from his cup. 
"Me and Neer braved the wilds of town looking for the power station, found Tony and Walter, and they explained that they couldn't bring it up again without risking burning it out, not until we could lower the load on it.  Every house in the town had to be checked to turn off the lights and unplug the cells and turn off the coffeemakers.  A few months of hard work, and we'd have electricity.  Probably. If we didn't miss anything."
"And option two?" Dean asks, looking like he's enjoying himself immensely.
"Everyone get together, pick one area for all of us to live, and he'd work out how to cut power to everywhere but there.  We go though, flip everything off that needed electricity, and a week, two at most, we'd have lights."  She looks up at Dean.  "But to do it, it would take everyone, and we'd have to be outside, right in the middle of the street every day, going between buildings and checking and double checking, because we only had one chance to get it right.
"I lived in that goddamn building with peeling wallpaper and I wanted light to see how to get that shit off.  I wanted to sleep in a bed and eat food off a plate and to do that, I had to go outside and I wanted to do that and not be afraid.  I got three of four; I was still afraid, every minute, but when Tony showed us the guns he'd collected from around town, me and Neer were first in line to get them and learn to use them."  She wipes hastily at her eyes, glancing at Teresa in a moment of shared warmth, before looking at Dean again.  "And for his efforts, Tony got back to find out the lights were on and he was our first mayor.  I don't think he's forgiven us for that one yet."
"So after six weeks, give or take, you got electricity, plumbing, and people ready to start living their lives again," Dean says cryptically.  "Ready to start taking in survivors who didn't have any place else to go, and you get a goddamn dream telling you exactly where to get some kids who needed just that.  Anyone see where I'm going with this?"
"You think that goddess screwed with time to hide them until they had somewhere to go?" Alison asks incredulously, eyes darting to Castiel.  "Would she do that?"
"Her purpose was those women; that's why she was there.  The children--she wouldn't hurt them without reason, but they weren't--" He pauses; they were small. "She wouldn't even see them."
"What about that novice?"
"If it was to save her, she could have taken her when she left."  He studies the edge of his tea cup resentfully.  "I need to point out, what we know is almost entirely speculation.  It would help, of course, if the earth would give us a narrative of events," he adds in Teresa's direction, "but I assume you've done your best."
Teresa rolls her eyes, unoffended, while Alison and Dean both seem to find some point in the distance utterly fascinating.
"Amanda's report covers the rest," Alison says after taking an unnecessarily large drink of tea, cheeks suspiciously flushed.  "When we had the kids and the novice home and were sure they were okay, we went back to the church, got the bodies down, and brought them here for Dolores to check out and give them a clean burn.  The kids only knew the names they chose when they took orders, and since everything was either charred or wrecked, we buried them here under their names in the order." 
"What about the novice--the kids had to know her name, too."  Alison makes a face.  "Don't tell me--they couldn't remember it.  Because of fucking course they can't."
"Or they just aren't telling," Alison answers wryly. "They visited her every day, brought the babies with 'em.  Weren't surprised when she left, either. On a guess, the older ones helped her out, though I can't prove it.  All they said was it was a really long drive, and she really wanted to go home."
"Did she drive?" Dean asks.
"No missing gas or cars, but I guess she could have found one on the road," Alison answers, shrugging.  "We got her picture still--in retrospect, I'm surprised she didn't take it with her--and Dolores' guess on her age and some basic demographics, in case--in case anyone came looking for her, we could tell them something."  
There's a pensive silence after that, and it's Dean that finally breaks it.
"You said the kids don't remember anything about the courtyard?  Or the church?"
Alison shakes her head.  "The courtyard--it's blurred, lots of blank spots, shock I guess--but the church…." She gives Castiel an uncertain look. "What happened to them there--it's like…."
"Like the memories aren't there," he says numbly.  "And no space where they should be."
"There should have been, right?"  Alison sighs in relief at his brief nod.  "Thanks, I was wondering about that.  It was like it didn't even happen."
"Including the symbol?" Dean asks. At Alison's nod, he focuses on Teresa. "Do you remember?  The symbol, I mean."
"Of course." She looks at Alison.  "I haven't asked Kamal and Amanda yet, but I assume they do as well."
"We can ask them in the morning," Dean says grimly.  "On a guess, they will.  Anyone else see it?"
"Amanda followed Cas's order that no one else enter unless by my will and with my express permission," Teresa answers, choosing her words carefully.  "Alison gave the order to the town, and no one disobeyed.  I asked Kamal to join me in case he had seen it before, and he insisted on remaining in case I needed help to complete purification.  No one else entered or left."  She hesitates for a moment, exchanging a look with Alison.  "Why did you ask if we remembered it?"
"Because--"
"Because what Alison described regarding the children's memories is what was done to mine," Castiel interrupts.  "By me."
Alison's eyes widen as beneath the table, Dean's hand suddenly closes around his wrist, conveying reassurance with a warm squeeze.  "That doesn't mean--"
"It means the goddess didn't remove their memories," Castiel says softly.  "I told you, a god wouldn't do it like this, they wouldn't know how.  I did it, and then my own.  It doesn't make sense. Why wouldn't I simply let her remove the design from their minds or do it myself?"
"Cas--"
"You said this works on active memory?" Teresa interrupts, leaning forward when she sees she has their attention.  "Dean, you've seen the symbols for Ichabod's wards; do you remember all of them?"
Dean starts to answer, then grimaces.  "Most of them, yeah.  Why?"
"Most, not all, and you saw them in Laredo first; that's why you recognized them, right?" He nods.  "But if I gave you a pencil and piece of paper, I'm going to guess you'd only get maybe get half of them accurately."  Dean blinks at her, hand frozen in the act of picking up the cup. "What about that design in the courtyard?"
"Every line," he answers softly; he can't remember anything before Castiel's arrival, and nothing of actually seeing the design in the courtyard even after Castiel unmade it with his blood.  He remembers that, however.  "Teresa?"
"I can," she confirms.  "So why can't the kids after seeing it this time?  Even if it was shock, Alison should be able to find it in their memories, and she can't."
Dean sits back.  "At all?"
"Nothing," Alison confirms, gulping the last of her tea before looking at Castiel.  "No blank space, either."
"Why go through all the trouble of making something without a time limit and risk fucking it up by depending on the same shitty human memory that makes you lose your keys five seconds after putting them down?" Teresa asks in what he supposes is supposed to be a rhetorical question.
"That's a different type of memory," Castiel argues, unable  to help himself.  "In any case, what does that have to do with--" 
"Think about this one.  You escaped--or think you did--a human sacrifice and can't get the memory of that design out of your head," Teresa says conversationally.  "What do you do now?  Other than visit a psychologist: let's assume you realized you needed a little more specialized help."
"Go to a professional in the field," Dean says immediately.  "A hunter.  Ritual human sacrifice: that would get our attention.  Protect them while we tried to figure out how to fix it, yeah."
"A psychic, a seer, a witch, any practitioner," Teresa says, counting off on her fingers.  "Who else would a human who was desperate go to?"
"Crossroads," Dean breathes, sitting back.  "Make a deal to get out of it."
"Exactly the people you don't want to know anything about this.  Not a great way to keep a secret, especially if you want to hide this from other demons," Teresa says.  "That's assuming our smarter than average sacrifice didn't run into any demons along the way who read their minds, saw that design, and realized what it did.  First principle of keeping a secret: be the only one who even knows a secret exists."
"If the sacrifice doesn't remember the design until they see it again," Dean says, starting to nod, "they don't know it's even there, much less have any reason to try to find a way to get rid of it.  Repress that shit and move on."
"We can remember because we weren't part of it; unintended consequence of making a memory stick, it works on everyone who sees it, but the full ritual is the only way to hide it after. If Alison can't see it in the kids' heads now, even going to a pro wouldn't help," Teresa continues, bracing both elbows on the table and leaning forward.  "They wouldn't even know the person was still marked, or how, much less where to look."  She turns at Castiel.  "This thing is using organic human memory formation to do the job, no magic needed; the only thing new here is persistence, making sure you can't get rid of it and keeping it from degrading or altering, since memory does that all the time.  Even if a goddess could wipe their memories of what happened entirely, how do you get rid of what they don't even know that they remember?"
"Human memory can't be entirely destroyed without physical alteration to the brain itself and that's not easy, even for a god," he says, thinking carefully. "When humans form and store a memory, each engram is encoded redundantly and with multiple alternate pathways should one or more be destroyed.  The persistence isn't magic; the ritual simply takes advantage of what your brain already does on its own. What it does is protect it after formation, as well as the redundant copies.  That would include hiding it, even from the brain itself so it wouldn't affect the memory."
"Exactly," Teresa says softly. "With only one built-in trigger: seeing the design.  Perfect way to keep a secret: no one knows it's there, even the one carrying it, not until you want them to.  Even if you know it's there, the only way to trigger it is to know the design and show it to them."
"Including an angel or a god," Castiel realizes, looking at Dean.  "That's why those restrictions were added to the design; not just to hide its existence.  To keep the memory from being removed at all; even if they were looking at it in a human's mind, they still wouldn't see it."
Dean swallows.  "If that goddess couldn’t see it--"
"The only way to be sure it was gone would be to wipe their memories entirely. Everything they were, are, and could ever be, damaging the brain beyond repair." He meets Dean's eyes, seeing his own horror reflected there.  "Tabula rasa, a blank slate whose pen was destroyed just to be certain; as they were at that moment they would always be. It would be kinder to kill them."
"Or an angel who just learned all about human memory the old fashioned way told her there was another option," Dean responds, looking at Alison and Teresa.  "Cas, how'd you do it with yours again?  You literally can't forget anything, so…"
"I removed all the memories from the linear sequence," he answers.  "In effect--"
"Hid them," Dean finishes in satisfaction, and Teresa straightens with a startled expression. "Most of the benefits of wiping them, but no mindfucked kids.  All the demons were dead, so far so good, there was no one alive who knew the design or about the sacrifice at all.  The kids remembered almost being sacrificed, though; that just might make a demon curious when they saw it, and wiping it--big blank space--would get attention.  So lower the risk, just in case.  Take everything about that sacrifice, and bonus, improved mental health for the under-ten crowd."
"Best case scenario: all organic triggers would be gone that would retrieve the memory of the design, and maybe that would break it," Teresa agrees, nodding.  "Didn't work, but it was a longshot anyway.  Second best: with all the demons who were there for the first try dead, there'd be no one to come after them, so it wouldn't matter if it was broken or not.  That doesn't mean word didn't get around, though, and that's exactly what happened.  Removing the memory of the sacrifice would protect them not just from a random demon, but even from one who knew enough to go looking for some kids with a memory of a failed human sacrifice or--"
"--kids with a big blank space in their memories, all in the same place," Dean finishes for her, looking at Castiel.  "I heard something about that being kind of noticeable.  I'm guessing a demon would notice that, so instead, hide the kids in plain sight.  Only way to find them would be knowing what to look for."
Alison closes her eyes.  "And it almost worked."
"It worked perfectly," Dean says softly, but he's not looking at Alison. "The kids survived."  With a flickering smile, he returns his attention to the others.  "Not only that. Two and a half years since then; those demons weren't waiting, they've been looking for them.  Only way they found them was using human tools who could ask the right questions and even then, they had to be here for weeks before they were sure it was these kids.  And that's the only reason we know this exists at all, much less that somewhere out there, someone else knows not just it happened, but the design.  All the kids were was confirmation; eventually, they would have tried this without 'em and we'd be fucked and not even know enough to realize how much."  He slumps back in his seat, expression darkening.  "And we're no closer to figuring out how the hell to get that out of the kids' heads before someone tries again.  If the only way to remove it was mindfucking the kids, then…."
"We don't have to remove it," Teresa says slowly, looking up with a startled expression. "Just unmake it."
"They were watching when I unmade it in the courtyard," Castiel answers.  "If that didn't work--"
"In their minds," she says, tapping the table restlessly.  "Natural memory formation of the original, unnaturally persistent and no degradation, because it's protected; they want to make a memory a sacrificial circle, we'll treat it like one.  Draw it again, let the kids recall it, then unmake it in their memory when it's active as well as here."
"And what about the copies?" Dean asks, the hope suppressed but there. "Will doing one get them all?"
Teresa looks at Castiel thoughtfully.  "If they're linked by contamination, unmaking one will unmake all the copies.  On a guess, though, they aren't; this thing makes the brain do the heavy lifting, so each copy will be discrete.  However, that means every time recall is established, all the copies have to become active; not like they know about each other and can pick which shows up.  Once it's in their conscious memory, Alison can see it--see all the copies--and we can find and unmake each one."
"We draw it, they remember, Alison reads their minds and…that's not where this is going?" Dean finishes at Alison's baffled expression.  "Teresa?"
"She can see them," Teresa agrees, and Dean follows her gaze to Castiel.  "Altering them, though…."
"She could," he admits finally, and Alison's eyes widen.  "However, I wouldn't recommend this as a good way to learn the principles."
"I could do that?" Alison asks blankly.
"You can do it now," he tells her.  "But it wouldn't end well, and please don't ask me to elaborate on what that means."
"I'm not asking," Alison assures him, looking shaken.  "So how--"
"Something Teresa shouldn't even know enough to guess," he interrupts as Teresa shrugs.  "The earth is indiscreet, I see."
"The earth," she says, "is practical."
He sighs, looking at Alison again.  "Even if you were experienced, mistakes are still possible, and with something like this…. It's not a matter of knowledge or experience, but--something more fundamental."
"What?" Dean asks when the silence stretches to the (very short) limits of his patience.  "Seriously, just say it."
"An angel would be very useful; manipulation of human memory is intrinsic to their beings, and they were created to serve humanity.  However, due to their absence--and the restrictions against them, which may even apply to active memory.…" He closes his eyes, resigned. "The fact I altered my memory--and apparently that of the children--without ill effect proves I retained that, which shouldn't surprise me as it's certainly useless enough to qualify...nevermind.  We can't make mistakes; it's instinct, and there's no danger of permanent damage to the brain because we know exactly how to do it.  What I don't have," he adds, opening his eyes to stare at Teresa, "is Grace, or even a compatible source of power….you must be joking!"
"Me," Alison says blankly, looking at him, then at Teresa.  "But I don't have any power. I just--do it."
He sighs, ignoring Teresa hiding her smile.  "You do, it's intrinsic and specific to your abilities so useless for anything else, and I don't have time to explain more thoroughly on the off-chance you actually care, so just take it as a given.  And this is a terrible idea."
"No, it's a good idea," Alison argues, looking between them. "It's fine, what do you need me to do?"
"Survive," he says quietly, watching the color drain from her face.  "I don't know if I can see it without you, but even if I can, I would need you so I could make the changes, and that means access to your entire mind and exposing you to mine.  You won't survive, not even for the few moments it would take me to unmake each memory."
She licks her lips before nodding.  "I'll do it."
For a moment, he forgets how to breathe. "Alison--"
"I'll do it," she repeats. "So I'll ask you again: what do you need me to do?"
"No--"
"Fifteen kids, Cas," she says, learning forward urgently. "It's worth the risk--"
"No."  Focusing on the table, he takes a deep breath, trying to think.  "The children aren't in immediate danger. We have time to consider other options."
"What options?"
"And time to think of them as well," he answers flatly.  "This isn't and will never be one of them.  Teresa, how you could even think--"
"On a guess," Dean says casually, "because she thinks she can protect Alison.  Or the earth will."
Teresa doesn't answer, eyes darkening.
"Alison said you used to help her block everyone out," Dean continues, taking a drink from his nearly empty cup.  "I didn't think much of it, but the thing with Amanda--Cas said she was the only one in danger, the earth would protect Alison.  She's not bound to it, you are.  So why would it care what happened to her specifically? Your feelings?"
"That's one way to put it," Teresa agrees reluctantly, flickering a glance at Castiel. "It's…private."
"Which is why Cas can't tell me?"
"Actually, I can."  Teresa's eyes narrow.  "The formalities required of an angel when interacting with Creation--which includes the earth and all that concerns it--no longer apply.  It's a matter of courtesy, and I'm willing to discard that at need or simply for spite.  This would be need, but spite isn't off the table."
Teresa makes a face.  "She's bound to me, and what concerns me concerns the earth."
Dean blinks slowly. "What?"
"She did it to save me."  Alison stares at her cup, fingers tightening in Teresa's.  "I--wasn't entirely honest about--I didn't wake up hearing everything the next morning; it was two weeks before I woke up.  In the infirmary, on an IV line, with Teresa looking at me like I just came back from the dead."
Dean lets out a breath, the set look softening.  "How'd you do it?"
"Same way I was bound to the earth," Teresa answers, calm fragile enough to shatter.  "It took me two weeks to find her, and once I gained her consent, I could take it from her enough for her to adjust."
"Noise shared is noise halved," he murmurs, and Alison, glancing up warily, nods. "That's what you meant."
"And finally wake up," Teresa whispers, eyes dark with remembered fear. "I'd die for her; living for her was a bonus."
"That's not to the death, you get that, right?" Dean asks, turning on Alison.  "Teresa's bound until it lets her go, and death's not necessarily a dealbreaker.  You get this--"
"I get her," Alison answers, covering their joined hands protectively.  "Even if it wasn't my life on the line, I would have done it."
"Cas, I made my offering when I was bound to the earth," Teresa continues.  "I got all of it in return, and I survived; that's the test, and that's how I passed.  What I can do, she can, but that's not what made her able to interpret that memory she got from you: that was her. If she can do that--"
"One memory," he spits out, panic clawing through him. "One, and this isn't a memory. This isn't like your offering to the earth; all that it was, is, and will be is the smallest fraction of the whole of Creation, and Creation is only a single mote of what's contained within me.  She'll shatter in a single breath!"
"Then when you're unmaking those memories," Alison says into the ensuing silence, hazel eyes certain, "do it faster than I can breathe."
Teresa thoughtfully left clean clothes for them on the bed, which is less of a surprise than it once would have been.  Changing clothing specifically for the purpose of going to bed is still a concept he finds difficult to grasp, but in this case, it's not simply due to the sometimes inexplicable habits of humans.  Dean is a hunter, and he rarely bothered to do so without some other factor (damaged or otherwise unacceptably soiled clothing, an injury requiring him remove it so it could be treated, a shower, sexual intercourse), but for reasons that elude him, Dean now does it every night and insists that Castiel acquire the habit as well.  
Four months of experience have taught him this much; even the most inexplicable of Dean's rules for human cohabitation is perfectly acceptable when supplemented with a system of rewards for compliance.  That would be less of a problem if the reward system involved regular sex; sexual favors offered to reinforce acceptable behavior is one of humanity few successful leaps of logic.  That it's based entirely on Dean's personal happiness and sense of comfort in his surroundings is not something he's prepared to consider, at least until denial is no longer a viable option, which thankfully is not quite yet.
Picking them up--they're very large, and he wonders if Teresa and Alison simply keep random clothing for potential guests available at all times or if she borrowed them from someone living here--he flickers a glance toward the door and the safety of a Dean-mandated habit of showering before bed.  Somehow, he thinks tonight Dean will feel an exception is warranted.
"Gonna have to skip the shower tonight," Dean confirms, kicking off his boots and setting them beside the nearby chair before pointing to the foot of the bed.  "Sit down, Cas."
Reluctantly, he toes off his boots first, another inexplicable habit, as Dean makes himself comfortable against the headboard and warily takes his assigned position at the foot, extremely aware of the space stretching between them.  
"Okay, first thing--you don't even remember what happened last time with that goddess," Dean says unexpectedly.  "This is all guesswork."
"It's possible I had a nefarious purpose instead, yes--"
"Don't fuck with me," Dean says warningly, and he shuts his mouth.  "Your experiments in doing shit like this are running one-one when it comes to safety, so tell me you know doing this won't kill you.  I mean, not guess, not 'let's try seeing all things oops that was a bad plan and blood loss'; you can tell me this is totally safe."
"Altering their memories?" he asks in surprise, adding quickly at Dean's scowl, "No, there's no danger at all.  But I'd like to remind you that I didn't agree to it."
"You will," Dean responds venomously.  "Show you a fire, tell you it's hot, you'd walk through it just to see if you could.  So let's get this part out of the way now: you're telling me it couldn't….I don't know, do something to hurt you?  By accident?  Or on purpose," he adds.  "Let's put that on the table, okay?  Alison's a psychic, tell me she can't--do anything to hurt you or--whatever?"
Castiel blinks slowly. "A human psychic?" Dean nods empathically, seemingly forgetting Lucifer's abject failure when simply attempting to read his mind.  "Even if she wanted to," he says slowly, wondering if he should be offended or worried about Dean's display of very specific anmesia, "she couldn't, no."  Then, "Why would you think she would?"
Dean's expression goes through several bewildering permutations, each equally baffling, before settling--almost gratefully, he thinks--on anger. "Just covering all the bases, okay?"
"Dean--"
"Okay, next subject," Dean interrupts.  "Why don't you want to do it?"
"What?"
"The thing with the kid's memories and Alison," he explains, as if that's actually what he thought Castiel wished to have clarified.  "Teresa thinks Alison will be okay, so--"
"She doesn't know what she's talking about." Dean cocks his head.  "She's not wrong, but the scale against which she measures me is--inaccurate--because the earth doesn't know what it isn't, only what it is.  Dean, the earth needs Teresa to tell it what you are when you walk the surface of its skin and are nourished by its bounty despite the fact you are born of it: it thinks of you as earth and is continually surprised you aren't stationary and require food and dislike earthquakes.  The obvious escapes it with truly unsettling regularity, because it's limited only to what it is: earth and all that it encompasses.  It knows what an angel isn't--earth.  What they are--what I am--it cannot know, and as that's not earth, it doesn't even know that!"
Dean starts to nod then sighs. "I get--none of that, but you'd know, so I'll go with it." He does something with his hands that after a moment, Castiel realizes is supposed to convey calm. "It's a risk, a big one--"
"It's not a risk," he says flatly.  "I will kill her. And possibly Teresa as well if their connection is as strong as I think it is and the earth doesn't take action to cut its losses when it realizes nothing it can do will save Alison from me."
"Right."  Dean hesitates.  "That's the only reason?" 
"It's the only one I care about." Dean looks startled and tries to hide it, but not quickly enough.  All at once, everything of this day, of the last four, coalesces into a single mass; anger, at those demons, at Lucifer, at the Host; at a goddess who's been dead for years who would have dissolved those children's minds without a thought; at Dean for what he asked of him and wants to ask of him now; at himself, for all that he isn't and even more for what he still is, for a small convent who died in horror, unknown and unmourned, their names lost, because they were too small, and he had other things to do.  You don't understand, he wants to tell Dean; all I had to do was look, we could have saved them all, and I didn't.  They were too small.  "You think I wouldn't care."
Dean's eyes widen. "No, of course not. I just--"
"One human life," he hears himself say.  "I've killed so many of you, so why would one more bother me?  It would be for a greater good, after all; I've heard it before.  It's always for a greater good.  What does that even mean, greater good?  Are there small ones?  Who cares for them?"
"Cas, listen--"
"I'd shred her mind into ribbons, and I'd see it happening and still be unable to stop it," he says, hearing his own horror in every word.  "Every part of her would be dissolved into infinity, into what I am, into me, and it would take forever, I would watch it, she would feel it, we would feel it forever, because where we'd be when we do this, there's only now.  And when it was over…." He'd gaze upon the still-breathing corpse of a living woman, one who sees the vastness of humanity as he once did, a field spread with lights brighter than any star could ever be.  He showed her herself, one light among so many, and he--he'd be the one to put it out.  Simply by being what he is.  It would never be over. "Killing is easy, Dean.  If you want an executioner, let me put a bullet in the head of one of the children the way you asked me to put in yours; it would break the circle, take far less time, be far less painful, and one human, after all, is very much like another. You tell me which child: I'll wait."
"That's not--" Dean starts, starting to look upset: good.
"What you meant? Of course it's not: you're not the one who has to decide whose head gets the bullet! That decision is and will always belong to the person who's holding the gun, and that isn't you either!"
"I know."  Dean takes a deep breath, clenched hands relaxing with a visible effort. "Alison volunteered.  Look, I'm not saying to do it--"
"Yes you are."
"--just--look, if the only option--"
"It's not," he says. "There's a choice, it's just not one you have to make, so you don't have to admit what it would be.  Alison volunteered; you don't have to say her life matters less to you than those children's.  I'm the one who will kill her; you don't have to suffer a single sleepless night after her death.  Did I miss anything that you won't have to do?"
"Fuck you," Dean says hotly.  "You think this is easy for me?"
"You'll be alive, you won't grieve for your lover and your sister, and you won't have killed a woman whose mind you knew and remember each and every horrific detail of how she died for the length of your life," he answers and has the satisfaction of seeing Dean flinch as if he was punched in the face.  "Yes, I do think it's very easy for you, and only you would be stupid enough to imagine you had the right to even ask that question."
Dean licks his lips. "I'd take her place if I could."
"You should be glad you can't or there'd be one less child alive tonight and the circle would be broken," he says, turning away from Dean's stricken expression. "Don't pretend to be surprised; it's simply their misfortune that they aren't you.  You'd choose otherwise, I'm sure, but much like killing Alison, much like your request that I kill you, it isn't your choice to make.  Spare me your horror and your protests: this isn't about you, no matter how much you think it should be."
Behind him there's only silence, the room closing tight around him; he can barely breathe, but they're not home in Chitaqua: there's nowhere else to go.
"I'm going to take a shower," he says on his way to the door.  "Don't wait up; it may take the rest of the night."
@@@@@@
--Day 139--

Dean's weirdly unsurprised to see Alison come in the kitchen, sleepy eyes focusing on him briefly in insomnia-fueled hostility before melting into relief when he points at the kettle.  Returning to the table with cup and hot water, she stares at the box for a moment before selecting green tea, which as far as Dean's concerned isn't tea, which should be fucking black as God intended.  He has opinions on tea, okay. 
After taking a drink--unsweetened, Jesus Christ--she sighs.  "Nightmare."
Dean lowers his cup warily.
"Not that kind," she says scornfully.  "Teresa.  Before she came here--that last town."
He thinks about the wall in Cas's cabin, an invisible map of bullet holes lingering beneath repaired drywall and paint behind the TV.  "Yeah."
"She was alone," Alison whispers, "hiding in an overgrown field.  She could hear them shouting that they had to find her, so she had to be quiet."  She stares down at her cup.  "I'm just standing there, watching them coming for her, and I can't do anything.  Just watch."
He swallows a scalding mouthful of tea and barely feels it.
"I'm guessing talking about the church set this one off."  The hazel eyes grow distant.  "Lucifer wiping out humanity: doesn't seem like a bad idea, nights like this." She lifts her cup, smiling sardonically.  "So I come downstairs and have tea and think about tomorrow's schedule.  I'll tell you this; for not being a people person, mayor really works for me.  I don't have a lot of free time to contemplate the pros and cons of the genocide of humanity by an archangel with daddy issues."
"I clean guns," Dean offers.  "Tell myself I'm not tempted to use them, which sometimes works, since the people I'd use them on are already dead."
She raises an eyebrow.  "You want to talk about it?   It's rare these days to say that to someone and not be ironic."
He does, actually.  "Some people at Chitaqua--they tried to kill Cas.  Long time ago, when we were all--more crazy than now, considering."  He swallows, tracing a finger over the rim of his cup.  "They hated him, which--I'll be honest here, I tried to kill him the first time we met, not like I can judge.  Yet I still do, a lot."
"You tried to kill an angel?"
"I didn't know he was an angel!" he objects, feeling defensive.  "Comes in the barn, whipping coat, giant fucking wings, talking about my destiny, defecting bullets, putting Bobby to sleep…" Alison's eyes widen.  "Maybe you had to be there.  It got better."
"You do win for weird on that one," she agrees.  "My sex partners have been exclusively human, and generally women.  Yours include angels."
"Mine were all human women. You know, before." He reconsiders that in light of the fact that actually, no, they weren't.  Even excluding his non-existent sexual relationship with Cas.  "Okay, Anael, but--"
"Sounds suspiciously like it rhymes with 'Castiel'," she observes just as he catches he totally used the wrong name there.  "Not that I'd know the naming conventions of angels--"
"She wasn't an angel then, that was before."  Oh yeah, that helped. "And later."
"So you slept with his sister first?  Kinky." Alison gives him a malicious smile, but before he can explain how completely non-kinky it was, she adds, "Though I'll give you this one; no one can claim two angels on their scorecard.  Not bad."
"Yeah," he says a little flatly, turning that over in his head and weirded out by his own vague sense of annoyance that technically, it's actually still only one; two would, actually, be pretty goddamn sweet.  
"What happened?" Alison says softly, taking another sip from her cup. "With the people who wanted to kill Cas?"
"They stalked him all day, didn't even hide it."  She nods slowly, eyes dark.  "They--he and Vera--she was a target, too, that's another fucked up story right there--were in his cabin.  Waiting for them." Like Gaius in the Grove of the Furies, his murderers screaming for his blood while he told a Messenger about how humanity was better than this and believed every goddamn word he said.   Because that was the important part for him: not his death only moments away, but an idea, a promise received from an infinite being to remember it no matter what.  Cas didn't forget, not when it mattered most; that's the reason twenty-something murderers didn't die in Chitaqua that night.  "They survived.  Un, I mean--"
"Yeah, I figured," she interrupts soothingly, and reaching across the table, she takes his hand, work-callused fingers tight around his.  "You didn't know?"
I wasn't even here, Dean thinks helplessly, but it doesn't matter.   "No.  I should have, though."
"You think?"
Dean jerks his hand away and almost spills the remains of lukewarm tea at her odd smile.  "What the hell--"
"Oh boy," she mutters.  "Let's hit all the magic words now: should, would, could, hindsight's twenty-twenty, objects in the rearview mirror--"
"--may appear closer than they are," he finishes in disbelief.  "Meatloaf, really?"
"Bat Out of Hell II.  It's a ten minute track, pretty hard to forget," she says with a shrug, picking up her cup again.  "Yet you still forgot.   How is that working out for you, anyway?"
He blinks at her.
"It's not," she tells him, waving expressively at--his cup? His head?  No idea--before rolling her eyes.  "I'm gonna give you the cheat sheet on this one; yes, you should have, would have, could have, and you didn't.  Now hindsight's twenty-twenty, we both know the Meatloaf song by heart, so move the fuck on already."  She starts to take a drink and scowls unhappily at her empty cup.  "More tea?"
"Yeah," he says blankly, watching her retrieve the kettle and pour them both more water before taking it back and after a moment, refilling it and setting it on the burner.  Dropping a teabag into his cup, he gets another of the green shit and places it in hers to seep, sighing.  "You don't know all of it."
Alison sits down again.  "Then why don't you tell me?"
To his own surprise, he does.
"So that's why you waited until after we talked to bring him around," Alison says, retrieving the kettle and giving them both a refill before refilling the kettle and sitting back down.  They both go for black this time and let the fuckers steep; caffeine is everyone's friend tonight.  "Makes sense."
Sweet and strong as fuck: just like he likes it, nearly scalding his tongue on the first drink.  In hindsight, it occurs to him that he didn't have any actual reason for not asking Cas to visit Ichabod before Alison revealed what she was; he just didn't.
"Yeah, it's--"
"Wait, you said it was a feeling," Alison says suddenly, and Dean catches up just in time to see an arrested expression on her face.  "Like--random and inexplicable hostility at a large party you put up to someone being a dick?  Anything like that?"
Dean takes a drink of tea; there is no safe answer to that.
"Oh God," she says, slumping back in her chair.  "There were like, seventy people--"
"Eighty-three," he corrects her, because he's dumb like that.  Alison spears him with an incredulous look.  "Look, it's not everyone getting the shitty vibes, okay?  Just some people--"
"How many?"
"Five left the house, eight avoided any room he was in, and six just stared at him from behind furniture," answers whatever's got control of his tongue. "Look--"
"And that would be why you were Mr. Creepy Possessive Boyfriend all night," Alison says, and Dean blinks as guilt and regret chase each other across her face.  "Goddammit, Dean--"
"They can't help it, it's not a big deal, and Cas didn't want you to know, so don't tell him," Dean bursts out before he forgets the first two; the first and third may be true, but the second isn't, not to him.  It's not that he objects to getting her on his side in this, but he's still just sane enough to realize one of them just might regret what happens when a psychic gets pissed off, and her expression says that's definitely on the table.  "He really--really--doesn't want you to know, okay?"
Alison licks her lips uncertainly.  "Why?  If I didn't even feel it--"
"That," Dean interrupts desperately, "would be why."
She's quiet for a few seconds, hazel eyes distant.  "Everyone--feels it?"
"Everyone feels something," he confirms.  "Except me.  And you."  He hesitates, then decides to just say it.  "He can't hide what he is, so--not like I can read his mind here--I think it's nice to be around someone who literally can't tell the difference."
"Other than his boyfriend, yeah, I get that." Alison chews her lip, reaching for her cup before giving Dean a searching look.  "People can't help it?"
"That's what he says," Dean answers grudgingly.  "Not like I can tell.  It's a great way to pass the evening,though. Next time we meet a whole bunch of new people, I'll see if he wants to start a betting pool, figure out if I can call it on sight."
"Can't live his life for him," Alison says practically.  "Can't order him to stay in your camp--oh wait, you can do that.  My mistake."
Dean glares at her and takes a drink of tea before he says something else he really won't regret.
"Every time Teresa's late getting back, I remember how a few of the people in that town looked really sketchy last time I visited. And why did they want her back so soon, anyway?"  Alison takes a long drink, shaking her head.  "Kind of suspicious, don't you think?  No one mentioned those new vegetable experiments at the last meeting; I wonder if there's a connection?"
He nods slowly; that would be it.  "Every time?"
"Every.  Goddamn.  Time." She takes a drink.  "My hindsight starts when she leaves town, Dean.  I'm godmother to Danny's next sprog, and yet, I'm trying to figure out if I can give them all the plague with my mind--Jesus, hope that isn't a coming feature, I can tell you right now that won't end well for anyone--because the roads suck and yes, it does take that long every time to get back."  She gazes at him over the rim of her cup.  "It won't get better, in other words.  That doesn't help, does it?"
He tries to remember why he thought he liked her. "Not even a little."
"Could be worse," she adds more lightly.  "You could dream the tragedy that is the future and know your job is to stop it from happening on top of that.  While not even remembering it."
"Could be," he says, staring down into his cup.  "Don't do it."
Alison pauses mid-drink  
"He's right, the kids aren't in danger right now, so why jump the gun?" he continues in a rush.  "Options: we'll find 'em. All we need is time."
"Dean, we don't know if there is time," she answers, setting her cup down. "Two of those demons got away, and they're going to come back and try to finish this.  We both know it's not just a matter of time; it's going to happen and soon."
"I'll put more people here--"
"And when more come after them?" she asks.  "And more?  How many are going to die to protect them?  All of us," she says, answering her own question.  "We will, Dean, we'll protect them until every one of us is dead.  Or--I do this."
"Or I take them to Chitaqua."  Alison opens her mouth, but hey, that's actually a goddamn option, who knew?  "Nothing--and I mean nothing--can get through our wards.  Not demons, not Lucifer, not the end of reality itself, whatever. It'll be fine."
"…the end of reality?" she falters, eyes wide, and Dean looks suspiciously at his tea; drunken confessions usually need you to be drunk first.
"If that happened."  Yeah, that's not reassuring, but he'll pretend it is. "Which it won't. Look, this'll work, I'll just--"
"Move fifteen kids and their parents to a militia camp?" He tries to decide if he should be offended: they got outdoor lights and finished hole for their future mess, and though he still doesn't know why you have to dig a hole before building something (pipes are involved, and maybe concrete?), he's gotta admit as holes go, it's pretty awesome.  "Dean, no."
"Why?"
"Because your cabins don't have roofs, and he's not going to kill me, so let's save ourselves some stress and do it this way."  She takes a serene sip from her cup.  "Which I don't need to be psychic or even reasonable observant to know is the problem here."
Dean grits his teeth.  "Look--"
"You realize your room is on the other side of the bathroom from me and Teresa's?" she asks curiously, and Dean shuts his eyes, finishing his tea in a blind gulp.  "Walls are great, didn't get the words, but tone--and volume--were pretty self-explanatory."
"I don't want you to die, and I sure as fuck don't want him to have to live with him being the reason."  He's still not sure how he ended up apparently arguing for Cas killing Alison for the greater good--what the hell?--but Cas sure as fuck believed it, and Dean picked that up way too late to course-correct back to sanity.  Which is why a waterlogged Cas is currently asleep on the very edge of his side the bed (they do, actually, have sides) in the most miserable huddle of ex-angel he's ever witnessed, and he's discovered all new, amazing vistas of guilt.
(It also dawned on him way too late that staring at someone's sleeping back for an hour straight qualifies as goddamn creepy, which would be why he's up the ass-end of the ass-end of the morning.  Discussing his domestic issues with his presumed boyfriend, potential human sacrifice, and Meatloaf's back catalogue over tea with a lesbian psychic between sharing stories of how their partners were stalked by mobs who wanted to shoot and/or set them on fire and how to handle that.)
"Tried offering sex?" Alison asks, wide-eyed as she sips from her cup.  "Works for me."
Jesus, if he thought that would work, he'd be naked and enthusiastically putting off the inevitable sexual identity crisis for when he has time to deal with it (after: Lucifer's defeat, saving the kids, curing Croatoan, finishing the mess, remembering the password to his goddamn laptop, saving the world, building the new room on the cabin, dealing with that end of reality thing….seriously, he's got a lot of shit to do).  He's not goddamn Nate, fucking with Zack's head for two years and change because he can't deal with what he wants and making everyone else not-deal right along with him.  For once in his goddamn life, he's not gonna fuck up, and there's no margin of error here, not when it comes to Cas.
…he has no idea where that was going.  "He's not doing it.  I'll make it an order if I have to."  Engaging Cas's auto-reaction to someone giving him an order…it's not that Dean doesn't believe Cas when he says (sincerely, even) that he can obey, but Dean thinks testing that should be left to later, and by that he means 'never'.  But whatever, he'll deal.
"Dean--"
"Not happening," he says, gulping the rest of his tea and regretting it at the burn of scalding liquid all the way down.  Suppressing a cough, he glares at Alison. "No."
"He's not going to kill me."
"You don't know what you're talking about!" he answers, just barely remembering not to shout, though honestly, if tonight's drama double-feature didn't wake the rest of the building up, nothing will.  He scrabbles for something--anything--that might make her understand, but he doesn't understand, and that's the entire problem.  "You don't understand what he is--"
"You're right," she answers calmly.  "I don't."
Christ. 
"Have you ever just watched the stars?" she asks.  "I tried, once; my ex tried to introduce me to constellations, swore it was just like connect-the-dots." She makes a face. "Shitty visual imagination or everyone else is crazy, no idea, but I couldn't see it, and I tried, Dean.  She was hot."
"You--"
"I get it now," she continues quickly, staring at the table between them.  "He thinks of us in constellations; all the lines are how we're connected--family, friends, guy you met once, it's the Kevin Bacon game but you're playing with infinity and it's not six degrees, it's like four, but in three dimensions--maybe dozens, who knows...."  She makes a face, shaking her head.  "I don't need to see the lines; they're just there, and some of them are so strong…you have no idea."
Dean licks his lips, chest tight.  "Cas."
"I think I reached the edge of the solar system about an hour ago," she adds, emptying her cup in a single gulp. "Not sure, but he thought that was Pluto, anyway, and who am I to argue with an angel's memory?"
He looks at his empty cup and heaves himself to his feet, hoping the kettle's still got some water left, then rethinks that.  Turning around, he sees Alison pointing at the cabinet. "Top left cabinet, top shelf."  
Coming back to the table with a dusty bottle, splashing three fingers in each of their mostly-empty cups.  Clicking the clay rims together, they both take a drink, and Dean makes a mental note to ask where she got this, because Jesus.
Coughing, Alison wipes her eyes, color coming back to her cheeks. "Never used to drink before I got here," she wheezes, setting the cup down unsteadily as tension rolls out of her like an unspooling thread.  
"I used to drink a lot more."  These days, he's got to set a good example for the crazy ex-angel sleeping the sleep of the Dean-related in the bedroom who's still hazy on the line between recreational and rehab.  Between Cas's religious adherence to well-balanced meals and the lack of convenient bars, despite the entire fever shit, he's never been this healthy in his life; somewhere, Sam is waking up to burst out laughing and has no idea why.
Shoving aside the low ache when he thinks of Sam--so habitual he barely notices it in more than changes in pressure--he reaches for the bottle and pours two more fingers for each of them before firmly screwing on the lid. 
"Okay," he says, meeting her eyes.  "Tell me why you'll survive it."
Alison picks up her cup, contemplating the whiskey.  "I'm not sure how--"
"Start with the memory thing," he interrupts.  "What memory?"
This part, Dean actually gets.  
"It's like this," Alison tells him, hands closed white-knuckled around her cup but expression wondering.  "It wasn't just the memory; it was all the times he remembered it, too.  How he remembered it and that--changed what he saw," she corrects herself uncertainly, peering at Dean.  "Does that make sense?"
It does; the difference between living it and the colors you paint it in afterward. Cas's memory is perfect, it couldn't change, but how he viewed it did.  Two children by the ocean: the impersonal curiosity of an angel whose recalcitrant charge was a source of both bewilderment and distant stress, the first time Cas maybe started to question and search out the answer.  The layers came afterward, when they became Dean and Sam playing in the surf miles from the motel they'd been trapped in for days before they finally escaped.
(He wondered why they built a sandcastle, then wondered about the lack of accuracy in the turrets, then wondered why they didn't get more water to achieve better sand-to-liquid ratio and wished he could have helped; he wondered why they ran into the ocean laughing, then wondered why they didn't do it more, because it looked very enjoyable, then wondered what it would feel like to walk into the water himself, feel it lapping around his feet and knees and be consumed beneath the waves; he wondered why they loved it there so much, what attraction the sand and water and air could offer them, then wondered, with a pain almost physical, how they could bear to leave, and how their father could possibly want to make them; he'd stay forever if he could.
It's a good thing he never drives when he's drinking; otherwise, he'd have thrown Cas in the cabin of the jeep already and made for the coast, direction unimportant, just so Cas can walk on his own two mortal feet on shifting sand and see his face the first time he steps into the surf.)
"He likes remembering it," Alison murmurs with a secret smile, eyes distant, like she's feeling it herself, and the blaze of envy, jealous, anger, pick them all, is so strong he can't even speak for a moment, harsh words trapped on the tip of his tongue.  Like she's taken something away from him, even just that glimpse into Cas's mind.
"Yeah," he says roughly, pouring them each another finger; they need to pace themselves to get through this, no matter the attraction of more alcohol to drown out what he can't deny.  "Keep going."
She does, putting into awkward words what no mortal in all of time has ever experienced; she's glimpsed infinity--a single drop of time and space within a single infinite memory--and survived to tell him she can do it again.
They've done some damage to the level of alcohol in that bottle when Alison says, "It's not just that, though."
Resting his chin in his hand, Dean sighs; of course it's not.  "Look, it's not that I don't believe you--"
"You don't believe me."
That's true.  "I believe you believe it," he concedes, picking up the bottle and pouring them both another couple of fingers.  "Cas knows he will kill you, though.  Believe versus know…you see where this is going?"
"Which is a problem," Alison agrees, looking into the depths of her cup thoughtfully.  "I'm not sure what to do about that, though.  Any ideas?"
Dean stops mid-drink, lowering his cup. "What?"
"Know he won't kill me," she says, turning the cup in her hands.  "Even 'maybe': I can handle it from there.  Only a second, Dean, that's all it'll take him to fix the kids' minds; that long, I can do this.  But not if he doesn't know I can. And that he won't.  Kill me, I mean."
He briefly considers just how much alcohol he's had tonight, but depressingly, he's pretty sure that's not why he knows exactly what she means.  What he's started to suspect--vaguely, but he's pretty certain he's right--is only confirmed by what she's told him.  
For an angel, 'personality' is a very thin veneer over the massive combination of infinite knowledge and cosmic power that makes up what they are and what they do, and that doesn't even include the built-in shit Cas calls instinct because Dean wouldn't understand it under any other name (he does get Cas dumbs shit down for him a lot and appreciates how Cas manages not to roll his eyes when he does it). It makes sense, he supposes; it can't be easy to even develop something approaching individuality when most of you isn't even, technically speaking, 'you', and that's even if you--for what value there is of that--know what that even means.  
Angels, like gods, don't have free will, and maybe that should have told Dean everything all on its own, but it didn't, not until he realized he was looking at one that had just that.  Nothing like watching someone hemorrhaging blood in front of you to teach you fast exactly what encompasses 'all things' no matter how sketchy the explanation might have been, and what it meant that he could turn it on but not off.  There are rules, Cas told him more than once, but for a god, for an angel, those rules are there from the moment of their creation, and those kind of rules aren't the kind that you can break.
When Cas couldn't stop, he looked surprised, but Dean wasn't, not really, not when he thought about it.  Watching Cas's increasingly frantic efforts, it hit him like a truck that it might not be possible for Cas to stop; in all his existence, he'd never had to or needed to--or even a concept of doing that--and it would follow the off-switch may not simply be hidden, but not even exist.  The built-ins for an angel didn't include how to stop being one even when they weren't one anymore.
Then again, he wasn't sitting on an angel's lap that day; this was Cas, and even back then, Dean was starting to understand the only limits on what Cas could do given motivation were the ones he believed in himself.  If there wasn't an off-switch, not a problem; Cas would fucking make one, and if he never knew the difference, all the better.  All Dean needed to do was get him to do it, and if there's one thing Dean Winchester's past and present got down to an art, it was that.
"Even if--" He cuts himself off; even saying that much is a betrayal, though of whom he's not sure.  "What if you're wrong?"
"The risk--"
"I know the risk!" Alison stiffens, eyes wide.  "If it's not a hundred percent guaranteed, it's zero, and he's not doing it."
He tosses back the contents of his cup; it's not about you, Cas told him, and it may be simultaneously the truest and stupidest thing said in that room tonight (and God knows, it had some competition).  The place where Dean's supposed to be a leader is still in progress, but he'll get there one day.  The place Cas has was there first, though, and when those two aren't compatible, he's not sorry at all about which one's always gonna win.  Cas doesn't need to fight everything on his own, not anymore; for once in his goddamn existence, he'll have one person that's fighting for him, and he's still not sure just how pissed he is that Cas hasn't figured that out on his own.
After a protracted silence, Alison sighs, refilling both their cups.  "I didn't think you'd go for it."
"I'm surprised Teresa did," he answers without thinking and is rewarded with Alison's cup making very aggressive contact with the table.  Looking up, he catches a fleeting look of resentful guilt and does the (only slightly drunken) math.  "Tell me why you're up this late again?"
"Nightmare," she says shortly, daring him to contradict him as she takes her shot and pours another; at this rate, they're both fucked, so why abstain?  "Your fucking boyfriend gave her second thoughts, happy?"
"Hell yes."  Saluting her, he takes a moderate sip from his cup, grinning maliciously at her. "Must be weird."
She rolls her eyes, reaching for the bottle again.  "What?"
"You and Teresa--" He just catches himself, wondering what the hell he's saying.  She gives him a querying look over her cup, and he tries desperately to think of something else to add to that.  "Did it bother you--when you found out?  What she was?"
"Why would it?" The hazel eyes narrow.  "She could have been a werewolf, and we'd just, you know, work with it.  Avoid hanging out during full moons, that sort of thing."
A werewolf-witch: only a surprise he hasn't run into one of those before, now that he thinks about it.  "And the thing you have--"
"Bond?" she clarifies with elaborate patience.
Dean grimaces; 'thing' was working just fine for him, thanks.  "It's like a shitty episode of Star Trek when you say that."
"TOS or TNG?"  He opens his mouth to answer and just barely catches himself at her satisfied expression.  "That's what I thought."
"Look, easier to let Sam watch his shitty sci-fi than argue, okay?"  Alison blinks, brown eyes focusing abruptly, and Dean curses whiskey and a liver that's way more surprised by alcohol these days than it has any right to be.  Licking his lips, he opens his mouth to tell her cousin, friend, random dude on the street, but the words die in his throat.  Denying Sam's like denying part of himself--the best part, the part that gave him a reason to get up in the morning and go to bed at night, live high school again in report cards and books and essays and fucking Trig and Calculus when dawn was only hours away and exhaustion sure, but that could wait, Sam had class and it wouldn't.  There's nothing of him that Sam didn't create, change, mold into the shape of the man he became, and denying it would be like killing both of them at once.  "My younger brother."
"Oh." She straightens, fingers closing more tightly over the body of the mug.  "Brother.  That--huh."
"What?"
"Nothing," she says too quickly, taking a drink from her cup.  "Random thought, dreams--"
"You're bad at lying."
"Shitty side effect of being psychic," she mumbles, giving the cup a resentful look and then adding him for good measure.  "Nothing like being able to read other people's thoughts--whether you want to or not--that makes you sympathetically honest just to compensate."
Despite himself, he's curious.  "People lie to themselves a lot?"
"Know thyself," she snorts.  "Most people never even met themselves, it's crazy.  I'll tell you something else--nothing like being a psychic to learn people.  I avoided it most of my life, and trust me, I get the dramatic irony of it."
"Can't help your opinion on humanity," he says wryly, unbelievably glad he doesn't have to deal with that.  Sometimes, it feels like he's a shitty thought away from being a really efficient serial killer; sometimes, he thinks he already is and just got really lucky on his preferred choice of victim.  It's not a thought that keeps him up at night, though, and that should worry him more than it does, which is never.  People lie to themselves: no surprise there.  Who would want to know themselves, that's the question.
"Lies about lies about lies," she sighs.  "People are so much better than they think they are."
Dean checks himself, cup half-way to the table.  "What?"
"Tell me about it," she says with a snort.  "Prescriptivist judgment calls they'd never expect another person to live up to, but themselves….it's like living inside a goddamn purity test that never fucking stops, and those went out with the dodo bird and flannel shirts when I was in grad school.  People bend themselves into every shape under the sun to get all the answers perfect.  It's not that hard to be a decent human being," she adds. "But everyone--and I do mean everyone--thinks they're one step and bad day from a clock tower.  Metaphorically speaking."
Dean tightens his grip on his cup.
"I catch myself hugging people," Alison continues, bafflement in her voice.  "No way I can tell them, it's okay, it was one extra ration of grain, it happens.  You yelled at your kid: surprise, kids are people and can be dicks, too.  You faked sick to get out of work: sunshine, everyone pulls that shit, including Teresa's mysterious migraines that clear up amazingly after a chapter or two alone in a not-so-dark room."
"My migraines," Teresa says from the door, voice husky, and whoa, maybe not something he needs to be dwelling on, "are not fake."
Alison's face lights up, hazel eyes glinting green and gold like light through stained glass, even as she settles her features into sardonic amusement; he wonders, uncertain, what it's like to have someone look at you like that, like you're the best part of their world.
"Yes, dear, of course," Alison answers with syrupy sweetness.  "Fran finally banging Stuart was better than morphine, I noticed that."
"'The Stand', Stephen King," Teresa tells him, hovering behind Alison's chair and curling her fingers in the loose hair to tug Alison's head back and glare into her face.  "Educational as well, considering our lives."
"My mistake," Alison answers mockingly.  "Your migraines are educationally cured.  You are truly a wonder of nature."  The corners of her mouth turn up. "Literally.  Or so the earth seems to think."
"Insomnia," Teresa tells Dean, still looking down at Alison.  "And this is my life.  It's all I dreamed of as a girl."
"And you're marrying me," Alison marvels.  "Should I give the ring back?"
"Fuck you," she answers, leaning down for a kiss that Dean really thinks may deserve privacy, which doesn't change how he's totally not looking away.  Plucking the cup from Alison's hand, Teresa bolts the contents and sets it back on the table.  "Anytime you're ready."
"You're getting married," Dean says belatedly, looking between two sets of startled eyes; yeah, they forgot he was even here.  "I mean--are you?"
"Yep," Alison answers as Teresa pulls back her chair, a smile lighting up her face.  "Come summer--it's kind of a thing here, no idea why. Giant party, lots of food, do the marriages and baptisms and comings of age thing, whatever." She smiles lasciviously.  "Do the math at the daycare; we got a lot of births come March and April."
Dean smirks.  "Keep on keeping on.  People are awesome like that."
"Manuel and Mercedes are relieved," Teresa says, reaching for Alison's hand and manually guiding her out of the chair.  "That we will no longer be living in sin, as it were.  I get lectured about making Alison an honest woman every time he goes to confession."
"Judge not," Alison intones as Teresa steadies her, and not just because of her ankle, "lest not ye be judged."
"Lightweight," Dean says mockingly, raising his cup in a toast.  "Love, honor, and obey, not that I judge."
Alison's eyes narrow before they dart sideways and she begins to smirk.  Dean's got no excuse for being surprised when he hears, gravelly and rough, "At least the two of you aren't playing poker until dawn."
Dean closes his eyes as Cas crosses the room, stopping just behind his chair, but for some reason, he can't quite stop smiling.  "That didn't happen."
"It did happen," Teresa says, a ripple of laughter in her voice. "But I acquired several pairs of socks and a Glock automatic, so I'm not complaining.  You got him, Cas?"
"She looks like a high school teacher," Dean tells Cas, tipping his head back and noting Cas looks hilarious upside down, "but she's a shark, dude."
"Yes, we're fine, thank you, Teresa," Cas tells Teresa, and Dean watches in bemusement as Cas takes his cup and checks the contents before finishing it off.   He stands up on his own, though, unlike Alison, who Teresa's supporting pretty much completely (table's kind of unsteady, though.  And the floor, too).  "Have a pleasant night."
"Night," Alison says over Teresa's shoulder on their way to the door.  "Don't do anything I wouldn't.  Though that's not much.  Except for dicks; never really got into them."
Teresa makes a soft sound that Dean assumes means she'll be laughing her ass off once she's got Alison dumped into bed.  Turning around, he looks at Cas, who stares back balefully.
"What?"  Searching Cas's face, Dean remembers their earlier conversation.  "Killing Alison.  That's not on the table." 
Cas's expression melts into--holy shit, what is that? 
"I don't.  Want that."  Dean stares into Cas's eyes as hard as he can.  "I figured it out.  Got us some options.  One option.  Good one, though."
Cas blinks at him helplessly before tilting his head toward the hall.  "Perhaps we could discuss this in our room?"
"Alison says the walls are great, but tone carries," Dean tells him wisely, waving a free hand and immediately losing his balance.  Cas catches him, of course, heaving one of Dean's arms over his shoulders with a strangled sigh. "I'm not drunk."
"You're very drunk," Cas corrects him, eyeing the bottle on the table that looks--actually, really empty, and he's pretty sure it wasn't near that earlier.  "If it's any consolation, Alison is as well."
"I'm not that much of a lightweight," Dean protests, and proves he just might be when his feet refuse to do the walking thing, knees dissolving like water.  "Am I?"
"Now you know I felt the other night," Cas answers sympathetically.  "It's very disconcerting."
"Pot may be a sacrament," Dean tells him as they start toward the hall to their room, "but alcohol is like, air or something.  This is wrong."
Maneuvering them through the bedroom door, Cas pauses to close it behind them before walking him to his side of the bed and easing him onto the mattress, vanishing only to return with a fucking huge glass of water and watching until Dean gets it all down.  "You should lie down--"
"I wouldn't ask you to kill Alison," Dean says again, looking up at Cas.  It's too dark to see his expression, but he hopes it's getting through.  "You gotta know that."
"No, you wouldn't." 
"I don't want you to, either." 
Cas stills, and God, Dean would do anything right now to see his face.  "If you want to talk, lie down first.  You're much better, but it seems I need to remind you that you just recovered from yet another ridiculous fever and your strength is limited."
"I do it just to piss you off," Dean tells him, but lies down anyway, watching Cas circle the bed.  "It's fun for me."
"I suspected as much."  Pulling back the blankets, Cas climbs in with the faint awkwardness of someone practicing a new skill.  Rolling on his side, Dean waits for Cas to notice him and has the satisfaction of seeing him actually jump a little.  "You should--"
"You don't believe me."  He may be drunk, but he's never felt more sober in his life.  "Why?  You think I don't get--"
"You think--think I should consider it, however."
"I think we should consider all our options.  That's not the same as doing any of them.  And I got a new one anyway, so let's consider that one, how about that?"
He can actually feel Cas's gaze sharpen.  "What option?"
"Take 'em to Chitaqua," he answers promptly--and maybe a little smugly, but whatever.  "Wards will protect 'em until we can figure out how to fix 'em.  Buy us some time."
Cas seems less than impressed.  "Chitaqua?"
"Repair some cabins, get 'em water and a few generators, it'll be fine." Cas isn't the only one who can handle logistics. Details are kinda sketchy on how to make that happen, but he'll figure it out.  "It'll work."
"And Alison agreed to this?" Cas asks dubiously.
"She will," he answers confidently. "So what do you think?"
For some reason, he's getting the feeling Cas isn't feeling this plan.  "Dean, have you considered--"
"It'll work," Dean interrupts; maybe he just needs time to think about it more, see the awesome?  "They're safe, and you don't worry about--you know, what's not on the table.  Not even think about it."
"Moving fifteen families to Chitaqua isn't…." Cas trails off.  "So I won't think about it?"
Dean nods, unbelievably grateful Cas made him lie down when the room does something a lot like spinning in place.  "Exactly.  I'll make it an order."
"That…I won't think about it?"
"Do it."  Finally he thinks his eyes have adjusted enough to get an idea of Cas's expression, which just makes it fucking annoying he still can't read it. "So you don’t have to, you know."
"Think about it?" Dean nods enthusiastically and regrets it; that nodding thing really should have been a lesson.  "Oh."
Cas's silence is somehow worse than the anger, creating a distance that nothing he's said seems to be able to cross.  "Cas--"
"Tomorrow--or later today, I suppose---we should discover more regarding what happened at the church if we can, since my lack of memory makes a great deal of our conclusions simply speculation."  To Dean's surprise, Cas lies down, tucking an arm under his head before continuing.  "I'll request access to Dolores' records on what she found when she examined the bodies.  There are certain--things that would be more familiar to me than to you.  Historically speaking.  They might give us more information, or an indication of where we should look next."
Dean nods slowly; maybe he was imagining--whatever that was.  Lightweight, he reminds himself hopefully.
"I'm helping with breakfast," Cas adds in an abrupt change of subject.  "According to the schedule on the refrigerator, it's Sudha's turn tomorrow, and she promised last time I was here to show me how to make nopalitos con huevos with naan.  Apparently, nopal did wonders for her morning sickness, and she's acquired a taste for it."
"It's cactus."
"It's nutritious, and the recipe involves several other vegetables, which according to my calculations, will cover two of your four daily helpings of fruit and vegetables."
Vera wasn't actually joking about Cas reading her books, but it was so much funnier when it was obscure diseases, prescription interactions, weird allergies, and Vera's suffering.  "I don't hear bacon on the ingredient list."
"A third of the household is exclusively vegetarian," Cas says didactically, because he takes Dean's food intake seriously and asks people about things like this, "so most dishes are meat-optional and meat is prepared separately and added to the dish for those who eat it.  Sudha's husband, however, does not have a religious dietary restriction against pork, so that will probably be a feature in the morning.   He seems to have a fondness for chorizo."
"Fuck this army to fight Lucifer bullshit," Dean breathes.  "Let's live here and be farmers."
"And salsa," Cas adds, like it's no big thing when holy shit, salsa, "as Manuel was able to successfully culture the correct peppers in their garden and the results preserved in jars in their pantry."  He frowns.  "Making Eldritch Horror did make me familiar with preservation techniques when applied to alcohol, and I certainly was extremely successful in my gardening efforts, such as they were."
Dean blinks slowly.  "You want to--plant a garden in Chitaqua so you can make salsa?" Dean's tries to work out what gardens need and how they can get it to Chitaqua.  It involves dirt and seeds and watering cans--on TV, they have flowers on 'em, no, he'll get something more metal for Cas--and Cas spreadsheeting his gardening efforts (color coded, that map pencil thing told him a lot), maybe chewing straw because TV, but even his imagination fails at Cas in overalls.  "We can do that.  When do you want to start?"
"I wasn't serious." 
"Yeah you were."  Cas wets his lips, and the lack of denial is pretty noticeable here.  "Why not?"
That's the bulletproof question: Cas's approach to life on earth hasn't been--by any sane measure--an unqualified success, but coming in as a rebel with way too many causes (legion, even) means he gives zero fucks when it comes to bullshit restrictions on anything and the why-not threshold, as far as Dean can tell, is set somewhere in the stratosphere.  
In the part of his mind that's deeply uncomfortable with even the comparison, Dean wonders if his predecessor tried the Raising Sam Method with Cas, a proven approach that totally works right up until it fails like a lot (age 9, if anyone's curious).  It's not that he's comparing Sam and Cas (he really, really is), but if he's right (oh God, he thinks he is), Dean the former got lucky; Sam just ran off to college: evidence suggests that if Cas had run off, it'd been to Oklahoma or Waco or something to start a freaky sex cult fueled by mescaline and pseudo-adolescent rage against the man.  It's not like entire thing about driving is subtle, above and beyond Cas's completely unsurprising lead foot when given highway and a means to drive it.  He has previous-Dean-shaped demons of long drives past to dispel and fantasies of the German autobahn to aspire to.  Not a problem, though he's waiting for Cas to finally snap and just shout he gets a hard-on for triple digit speeds. 
Wow, he's totally a lightweight; definitely the alcohol talking.  Thinking.  Something.
"I don't have time for frivolous pursuits," says the founder of the Chitaqua Stoner Society and Group Sex Project, who organizes his map pencils by tint, private armory by functionality, pantry on a rotating schedule getting more esoteric by the week, and gets really intensely into the right mix of oils to get that 'does this a lot' gleam to his guns.  Someone Dean owes a lot taught Cas to fold their clothes department store-crisp, and he really, really needs to go to Laundry Day soon and observe the magic of Cas facing down that dryer with the broken timer.  "There's too much to do--"
"There's not, and if there was?  Blow it off."
Cas looks at him blankly, oblivious to the existence of all-night orgies with a Sex Pistols soundtrack and a 'shroom religious experience in the training field, the colors, man, infrared is like--dude.  Intense.  Or so Mark said.
"Hobby," Dean explains, and if anything, Cas's expression enters a whole new realm of bewildered.  "Thing you do because you like it and it's fun.  Just because you want to.  It's relaxing."  Or so he's heard; the hobby thing is new territory, and for a while, he had a vague idea it had something to do with stamps or coins or sitting in trees staring at birds or something.  "It'd be good for you."
Cas' radiates a combination of confusion and suspicion, like maybe Dean's fucking with his secret garden of the year aspirations for kicks.  "You don't have a hobby."  
"I could get one," Dean counters.  "Gardening?  Sounds cool: I'm in."
"You're serious."  Like he just can't believe they're having this conversation. That makes two of them; this went sideways somewhere along the way, but fuck it, he's committed now. "You want a garden."
"You want a garden," Dean answers firmly: watering cans, seeds, things you dig with, some claw thing, can't be that hard, goddamn cavemen pulled it off, but he's not okay with overalls, that's just not happening.  They'll start when they get back to Chitaqua, and this--this entire thing will be over.  It'll be fine.  "So we're making one.  Any questions?"
The smell of deliciousness wafts into the bedroom, drawing Dean from his hard-earned rest and into the shower and then the kitchen without any clear memory of the chain of events that led him to holding a cup of hot coffee and being gently ushered through a couple of rooms and out a door he's never seen before.
Blinking uncertainly, Dean comes to realize he's standing on a small stone patio and the subject of three sets of curious eyes and also, there's a lot of green out here.  "Hey."
"Not just you," Manuel tells him, hovering over something that looks--he's not sure, it's green.  No sign of peppers, but maybe it's the wrong season or something.  Do peppers have seasons?  "Sudha said we were screwing with Cas's concentration and threw us out."
Dean gulps a mouthful of scalding coffee to get something like clarity, sinking down on the concrete steps and taking in what he's pretty sure is what he and Cas are going to be trying to create real soon now.
What was probably once the back alley of this building and the one on the next street has undergone a revolution; concrete pulled up, rubble turned into what he thinks are maybe borders.  Craning his neck, he looks either direction and is faced with what looks like miles of greenery, the bobbing heads of other people up at this ungodly hour doing their thing.  Whatever that is.
Straightening, Teresa stretches her back, sighing at the audible pop, and makes her way to the steps, snagging a coffee cup from the ground and dropping beside him with another sigh, resting her head on one hand.  There are faded olive stains on jeans liberally dusted with fresh earth and the ragged flannel shirt over a worn Henley has the same look of habitual garden wear.  So there's clothes for this that aren't overalls: good to know.
"God," she groans, taking a drink.  "It's too early to be awake."
"You out here every morning?" Dean asks, trying not to be appalled at his potential future spread out before him in all its organic majesty.  
"Nah, just once a week during the off-season unless we're growing for personal use," Teresa says with a yawn, eyes falling half-shut.  "We're late spring and summer on this street; Syracuse does fall and winter.  Herbs and specialties are Second Street  That way, everyone gets a seasonal break.  Slack off."
Dean's eyes travel to Manuel hovering over his plants protectively, staring at a leaf intently like it's telling him secrets.  Well, his sister's a witch who talks to the earth; if Manuel can talk to plants, not a surprise.  And really useful, come to think; he wonders how well Eldritch Horror would trade for talking up Cas's garden and encouraging it to be bountiful and lush and amazing.  One thing even Cas won't be able to believe he did wrong.
"So these feed everyone here?"  Dean doesn't even pretend he can do vegetable math, but he's falling short on quantity per person.
"There was life before mass farming," Teresa tells him, sounding amused.  "People did it like this for centuries and it worked out just fine.  Give or take a famine or two."  He follows her gaze to Mercedes, serenely hard at work moving--leaves?--around, long brown fingers twist-tying pieces of what Dean realizes is chickenwire into shape around a group of plants huddled close to the ground.  "South fields, too: north fields are where we grow what we're gonna trade."
"And the animal--stuff."  Teresa winces.  "You, either?"
"This close to vegetarian when I took my first shift and we were doing a culling," she says sadly, holding finger and thumb very close together.  "I named them.  I didn't know."
Yeah, that's what he figured.  "I have no idea how you're all doing this."
"Me either," she answers, smirking at his surprise.  "I'm just a pair of hands and a check-in with the earth.  Mercedes and Alejandro are third-generation migrant and Dina got a degree in agriculture.  They do all our crop planning.  Every season, they take a week and three laptops to one of the rooms in admin and do a review, call in the leads to survey the land, Lanak from inventory for our supply lists, work out the margin of error we have to work with."  She give Dean a wry look.  "INS saves lives, who knew?"
He grimaces.  "Mercedes and Alejandro were in custody when the borders closed?"  
"With me and Antonio," she confirms, blowing out a breath.  "The migrant circuit--let's say there's a lot of people confusing 'assumption' with 'fact'.  I grew up in the Valley, went to UT Pam-Am after I graduated high school--"
"Did an apprenticeship for witchcraft," Dean interrupts.
"--and got a degree in History," she says, raising her chin.  "I kept busy." The faint smile vanishes.  "After my first circuit with them on a hunt, I started carrying my birth certificate and social security card with my ID, like Mercedes told me when I volunteered to follow them in the first place.  Hearing 'Do you speak English' as the first question anyone in a uniform asked me stopped being funny really fast, and so did being taken into custody until they could verify my citizenship."  Her expression darkens.  "They were used to it; show their papers, get stared at for a while, then they'd get let off with a warning to be less Hispanic or something, that never was clear.  I wasn't."  She slants a look at him.  "You made a weird la migra, Dean; you never asked the right questions, for one.  "
Dean closes his eyes, fighting the urge to curl up in a ball.  "How much did they tell you?"
"A gringo with a Spanish For Tourists in his jacket pocket, that he'd actually try to use?"  She leans closer, mouth curving in a smile.  "It was nice; I got back from New Mexico after a stupidly long job--fucking fae, in goddamn Phoenix?  Why?--and got to feel professionally inadequate because the reason they didn't call me back was some random guy showed up.  And your eyes--Jesus, if I heard one more sigh about 'totally like jade or emeralds, Teresa'…."
"Zena," Dean says immediately, and Teresa's eyebrows soar to her hairline.  "Uh, we--got to know each other. She was really helpful.  Hey, tell me what you're growing?  Do you use a watering can?"  Then, "So you--knew her?"
"First cousin on my mother's side," Teresa says with relish.  "Third year of her apprenticeship; she came to it late and volunteered to vet you." She waits a deliberate, heart-stopping beat.  "Thoroughly."
He'll say this much; Zena was very, very fucking thorough.  "Uh."
"You passed, by the way."  Teresa laughs heartlessly at his expression.  "Mama thought it was hilarious, once she was sure you were legit.  A hunter in the colonias of all places--how old were you, anyway? Twenty?"
"Twenty-two," Dean answers glumly, taking another drink of now-cool coffee; Sam just left for Stanford and Dad was being Dad a little too much for close contact without the potential for patricide.  "One of my first jobs on my own.  It was late, bartender in Las Cruces mentioned something going on west of McAllen, thought I'd check it out."
"You were there to exorcise the altar boy."  Teresa sighs noisily.  "Everyone wants to.  We have a club for it.  I got four hundred years of maps and notes from about half a dozen generations, never got anywhere.  In Laredo, before you ask."
"I'd kill to see 'em," Dean says honestly.  "A border guard or two wouldn't bother me too much.  Just saying."
"Raised their prices again?" she asks wryly.  "Tell me about it."
"You wouldn't believe what they charge for some shit," he answers, frowning at his cup.  "Information and prescription speed, not a problem--okay, the prices are ridiculous, but still.  Anything else, though…."  After getting his hands on Joe's meticulously documented records of his supply runs over the last couple of years, he learned more about economics than high school ever got around to explaining.  Talk about the raw potential of supply and demand when demand needed it to survive.
Teresa gives him a curious look.  "What were you trying to get? Viagra?"
"Funny."  Finishing his cup, Dean sets it on the porch, staring at the greenery. "Okay, so this is your summer crops.  So how does it work?  You--"
"Why," she asks suspiciously, "does this feel like actual interest for more than guilt-related purposes?"
"I feel guilty," Dean protests, clutching his coffee cup and feeling trapped. "This is guilt.  So much guilt."  Then he gives up, because come to think, he's really gonna need help with this.  "Cas wants a garden at Chitaqua."
From beside him radiates silence that can't mean anything good.
"Look, he's done it before," Dean continues a little desperately.  "The gardening thing, I mean, it was just--"
"Marijuana, friend of us all," Teresa drawls, south Texas dripping off every word, and yeah, gossip. "I'm assuming this isn't going to be Chitaqua's cash crop…."
"I'm still not okay with being drug dealer to Kansas," Dean interrupts. "Call me crazy, but we got standards."
"Please, like we don't grow our own," Teresa sniffs.  Before he can process that, she adds, "So Cas wants a garden?  For what?"
"Maybe salsa?"  He can actually feel Teresa's eyebrows go up.  "I don't know.  Something that'll grow and he can preserve or something." Running a hand through his hair, he sighs.  "Look--"
"Give me a minute," Teresa says in a different voice.  Startled, he looks at her, and sees her eyes unfocus for a long minute, something gleaming in them before she starts to grin and relaxes.  "Sorry, I didn't know the earth could laugh."
"You're really working the weird angle this morning," Dean points out, depressingly not even a little unnerved. 
"Let me talk to Mercedes, see what'll work for a beginner," she says, still grinning.  "You want me to come up and check the land?  Tell Cas it's ready to grow things, give him some confidence?"
"Yes, please," he answers gratefully, only belatedly aware it was a test by Teresa's expression.  "We weren't lying--if you and Alison need help, bring your family and come. We should get you up there anyway sometime soon; Cas has to do something with the wards to key you or whatever.  Make it a weekend.  We can get you a cabin.  Might even have electricity."
Behind them, the door opens and Cas's head pokes out, surveying the garden with a brief, speculative look that confirms that no, last night wasn't a weird alcohol-related hallucination; he's not that much of a lightweight, and right this moment, that's a genuine goddamn disappointment.  So.  He and Cas will be planting a garden.  Jesus Christ.  
"Breakfast will be ready in five minutes," he announces, accomplishment adding a sense of righteousness to his voice that Dean hasn't heard since Cas talked about the Lord's work.  "You're supposed to wash your hands beforehand."  A glance at Dean, accusing, tells him that he didn't know this was a prerequisite for meals and guess what Dean'll be doing when they get back in Chitaqua.
"Thanks, Cas," Dean tells him sincerely as Cas deliberately shuts the door, aware that Teresa's looking at him quizzically.  "Human cohabitation rules.  He takes notes.  Doesn't need to, just wants 'em to use against me later.  Who knew that 'we were inconsistent in applying them'.  That's a quote, by the way."
"And that's your partner," Teresa observes.  
"Yeah," he answers, matching her grin; it's true.  Getting to his feet, he extends a hand to help her to her feet, then seeing Mercedes rubbing her back, remembers what Amanda told him last night.  Skipping down the stairs, he uses one of the little concrete-block paths--oh, that's a good idea, remember that--he helps her up.
"Hey, Amanda told me last night," he says, suddenly feeling awkward, because she's not even showing yet, and is it his imagination or is she glowing?  Or maybe just from work.  "Congratulations.  The baby, I mean."
Mercedes smiles up at him, immediately moving in for a hug, and Dean fights the terror of touching her too much--Jesus Christ, she's not made of glass, just pregnant--while Manuel wipes his hands on his jeans on his way over, looking so happy that Dean's chest tightens in sympathy.  
Honestly, this is one of the better mornings he's had in his life.
After breakfast--and Dean's never blessed Cas's perfect memory more than at this moment, doesn't even need to write down the recipe--Dean and Teresa take over clean up while Alison and Cas argue silently using their forks and food to express their feelings until there's literally nothing left on that table they can eat and everyone else has cleared out (looking sympathetically at Dean and Teresa, but not sympathetic enough to stick around).  
Clearing the table hastily of the detritus of breakfast, Dean escapes to the sink for voluntary dish duty as soon as he can be reasonably sure it doesn't look like the full scale retreat it is, Teresa right behind him.  
He's learned this morning that the water from the sinks and the showers are redirected into some kind of filter thing and then to the gardens out back, so watering cans are for spot-checking only.  So all he's got to figure out is how to do that, and Cas's adventures in upgrading Chitaqua's plumbing woes to minimal human standard are gonna come in handy.  The reports covering Home Improvement Weeks have their own box, but Dean's pretty sure Zack's name was on the list of people who knew shit about pipes, but on a guess, this is gonna be a camp-wide effort.
Then Cas says, "I wish to address the parents of the affected children today.  When would be the most convenient time to do so?"
"What," Dean asks blankly, wrist-deep in soapy water.
"What?" Alison asks almost on top of him. "Why?"
"I was present during the initial attempt to sacrifice their children," Cas answers.  "They have the right to know what happened--"
"You," Dean says over his shoulder, unsteadily handing Teresa a plate, "don't remember what happened."
"--and that I was there to witness it."  Only belatedly does Dean recognize the lack of vocal cues, sarcasm and amusement and personality flattening away; Cas the angel is back in the building, and it's nothing, nothing at all like what he was doing that day in the cabin.  "And what I am."
Dean turns around.  "No."
"They should know," he says to Alison, and Teresa catches the cup Dean's still holding that drops from numb fingers.  "I want to tell them, if you think they'll believe me."
"Cas--"
"I'm updating my playbook," Cas says simply, not looking away from Alison.  "So far, it's been somewhat successful.  As you told me it would be."
"For the record," Dean answers tightly, "I was lying, all of it.  Baby steps, Cas.  Let's start with people I can shoot without feeling bad about myself because I command 'em."
"Teresa?" Alison asks as Dean stares at Cas, a faint prickling running up his spine.  "What do you think?"
Glancing at Teresa, he's surprised to see her watching Cas.  "Alison, call a meeting with all the parents for after the noon meal; we need to do it anyway, so might as well do it now.   I'll take Cas to get copies of Dolores records on the bodies before we burned them.  Dean, meet us at admin at one.  Until then, Alison can show you our crop schedule."
"I'm what?" Alison asks blankly, almost drowning out Dean's "What?"
"I don't really care what you do," Teresa says dismissively, nudging Dean to finish the few remaining dishes.  "Anything's fine.  That's the plan.  Deal with it."
Talking with Tony--currently in admin and Alison's first stop in times of trouble, as mayor emeritus is apparently a lifetime position--is reassuring in that way that nothing's really reassuring right now, because Dean's been at Chitaqua too long.   After sending someone to pass the message to the other affected parents, they settle down in Alison's office for some quality sitting time.
"You know," Tony says thoughtfully, leaning against the official desk of the mayor, which looks like it went through a couple of wars and what he's pretty sure is actually char on the right side, "that explains a lot."
Dark skin uncreased by time, Tony still has the body of a roughneck, thin but carrying the rangy muscle of years working on rigs; even the boss got down and dirty when it came to living on an tiny metal island miles from the coast for months at a time.  He doesn't show his age in anything but experience, and considering his experience ranges from Gulf rigs to Mediterranean ones, traveling under the radar through half the Middle East because nineties America loved oil but their contractors were disposable, that says something.  Fluent in more than one dialect of Arabic, learned the old fashioned way from crews who didn't speak English and disliked Americans on principle (and as Tony remarked wryly over homemade beer, for pretty good reason), it doesn't surprise Dean at all he's the one that held Ichabod together from the first and built it into the town it is now.  Alison is only now learning to work with people, but Tony's life didn't offer a lot of choice in getting people skills fast, and you can't do much better than model on someone like him.
Dean, slumped in one of the ridiculous comfortable chairs, all sun-bleached overstuffed comfort and smelling vaguely of outdoors--Alison's office is awesome, no lie--stares at him in bewilderment.  It's not that Cas isn't weird, but….oh.  "You saw him fighting the Croats?"
"Walter recorded it," Tony confirms, flooring Dean once again on the ways of Ichabod. "Security cameras.  We installed them last year on Second and Main, because Walter needed something to do and inventing cold fusion and the internet again wasn't working out.  We figured it couldn't hurt, surprised us all when he got them online.  He flips them on during attacks on the town.  Unexpectedly useful when we can get them up; he's still working on that part."
"Of course he is," Dean commiserates at Tony's put-upon look.  "So the footage was weird?"
"Cas was with Amanda a lot," Tony says wryly, crossing his arms.  "I've seen her on the training field, so she was a good baseline. Between them, they almost cleared Second and Main all on their own.  He decapitated two Croats that got too close by ripping off their heads, didn't even slow down on his way to the square."  Tony radiates cheerful satisfaction, which makes sense; this is Apocalypseworld, those were Croats, and people here are crazy.  "Manuel and Amanda had all the patrol leads and the trainees review the footage.  Might have pulled rank and sat in to watch."
"You don't have any in the square?" Dean asks casually, fighting the urge to rub his arm.  He doubts it, which is great--Croat bite and talking about feelings and everything--but that blank space should worry him a lot more than it does.
"Not yet," Tony answers ruefully.  "He only found six in working order--don't ask where unless you really want to hear the details of the epic search through every deserted retail outlet in town--so he set them up on, let me get this right, 'the potential vectors of attack'."
"Sounds like Walter," Dean agrees.  "It's eerie.  We could find you more cameras.  James is jonesing for another supply run in the city.  Tar."
"Potholes," Tony says wisely.  "Send him down on his next day off-duty and I'll hook him up with my road crew.  If you want, I can send them back with him for a few days, do some work."
"You just saved everyone's sanity," Dean answers sincerely, sinking more deeply into the cushions with a sigh.  "Mira may start talking to him again. It's been touch and go for a while; Cas says she's been requesting way too much target practice."
"How's her aim?"
"Creepy as shit if you're a guy," Dean says, trying not to shift uncomfortably.  "Cas encourages her.  He thinks it's--"
"Cathartic?" Alison asks sweetly, both elbows on her desk.
"Funny," Dean says shortly, relieved that Tony joins him in glaring at her unrepentant smile. "Gotta be leftover from female vessels or something, I don't know."
"I never thought about it until Amanda told me some stories," Alison says thoughtfully, horrifying him almost beyond words.  Almost.  "Militia camp, and same problems as we have here.  Just different scale."
"They're weirder problems," Dean counters.  "Mira's fighting with James, Brenda and Zoe take her side, Joe stupidly--so fucking stupidly--tries to talk to her and suddenly, half the camp's in on it and the mess is inedible because Brenda forgets to add salt to anything.  Then Cas announces a low-sodium diet promotes good health because he does shit like that just to see what happens, and I got Phil writing poetry about the moon's fucking wisdom and kindness without the glare of the capricious fucking sun obscuring his glow--"
"Is Phil trying to steal your boyfriend?" Alison asks maliciously.  "You're the sun in this scenario? Just checking."
"Yes, he is," Dean tells her grimly, because finally.  He's never missed Vera so much as during those conversations with Cas; she'd confirm what Phil is doing.  "Cas doesn't believe me.  He just says his command of iambic parameter--"
"Pentameter," Alison murmurs.
"--is getting better."  Dean glares at Tony and Alison, who aren't even pretending they don't find this hilarious.  "Look, everyone's got a past--I'm not judging, I got my own--"
"Including Cas's sister," Alison tosses in there because she's fucking evil.  Tony's eyes widen, but he keeps his pokerface, which right now Dean really appreciates.
"--but mine doesn't look at me like I committed a federal crime trapping Cas in sober monogamous bliss against his will!" Dean snaps.  "Add in Phil, who I swear to God would poke holes in the condom if he got Cas into bed to get Cas to marry him so he won't be a single parent.  Phil is like this, no lie.  Vera was with me on this one: this shit's gotta be shut down now."
"Uh." Tony scratches his head, looking at him sympathetically.  "Look--"
"I live in an Apocalyptic soap opera," Dean tells them bitterly.  "I'm fighting a war against Cas's brother.  Tell me Phil isn't pointing that out when I'm gone--"
"Dean," Tony says gently.  "Breathe.  It'll be okay."
"--not that he and Lucy get along or anything--"
"Telling the parents what he is," Alison says from the other side of the desk, understanding filling her eyes.  "It'll be okay, Dean."
He wets his lips, wondering how the fuck they ended up here.  Cas in Chitaqua, safe and sound, surrounded by wards and people who know Dean won't hesitate to shoot if it comes down to it. Cas on the roof, staring wistfully into the darkness at a world only he could see, a world he only visited with another Dean Winchester's permission, business only, because he didn't know how to let go of anyone, not even just to let them breathe.  Cas' entire world was behind the walls of Chitaqua, because it was safe; it wasn't, though, and it's not that Dean doesn't think he could do better--he can--but he's pretty sure even thinking that is missing the entire goddamn point.
Chuck was right about the why, Dean knew that; he just didn't expect to live it.  Sam's safe and sound in another world, and after this long, he's either figured out what happened or is working on the grieving process and starting to move on.  God, he hopes he's moving on, somehow, that this isn't Gabriel redux, that Sam won't spend his life searching for him, carry on the Winchester tradition of mistaking revenge for a life lived.  Sam deserves better than that, and Cas deserves it, too.
"I told him," Dean says roughly, "that we weren't all like that, so why should dickheads with a fucking grudge get to define what people are like?  People can be awesome, and that if he got to know them, he wouldn't be disappointed."  He looks at Alison helplessly.  "Being shot, is that the same as disappointment?  He'll be too dead to feel it, so I guess that counts."
"Dean," Alison says softly, "it'll be okay."
"Because people are better than they think they are?" he asks bitterly.  "Good to know, but it sure as fuck never stopped them from trying to put a whole goddamn wall of fucking bullets in someone's head!"
Tony and Alison exchange a long look before Alison says, "They won't, for one; these are my people and I can vouch for them."
"Yeah, I feel better, did I mention I recruited the fuckers who went after Cas?"
"…and I'll be reading their minds the entire time," Alison adds, raising her eyebrows.  "What happens today, Dean, you won't be going on guesswork and faith.  Though that offer about hiding in Chitaqua?  I may need to take you up on that, since I'm telling them what I am, too."
Dean stares at her.  "You--"
"If he can do it," she says, meeting his eyes, "so can I."
"You're not going anywhere without us," Tony says, half-turning to look at her as Dean takes that in.  "You and Teresa go, your family'll going with you, including me and the kids.  We'll find another town; God knows there're enough of them."  He spears Dean with a look.  "Unless you could use a petroleum engineer, of course."
"Sure," Dean says, knee-jerk.  "I mean, anyone who needs it, yeah, it's fine.  Great.  How are you on fixer-uppers?  May need a little work.  A roof, I think, but that cabin definitely has water."
"Love 'em," Tony answers firmly, then looks at Alison.  "Backup plan, good call.  But that's not gonna happen, and you know it.  Because they're good people, and it's gonna be fine."  Huffing a breath, he frowns at Dean.  "How close are you to dragging Cas to your jeep and making for Chitaqua?"
Dean reaches down into his pocket, completely unsurprised by his lack of keys.  "Cas picked my pocket."
"Right, and God knows where Teresa's hiding him now," Tony says, pushing off the desk.  "Alison, you got nothing to do this morning, so I'm making a request of the mayor for desperate mayor duties at the power plant.  Dean, you're coming because you're curious about electricity."
"You hook it up and turn a few screws," Dean says vaguely.  "Then add gas and--it comes on.  Hitting it helps, sometimes."
Tony nods agreeably.  "Time to learn.  Electrical Engineering 101: you can take notes.  Let's go."
"He's where?" Dean asks when they arrive back in admin just short of lunch.
Teresa winces.  "The daycare."
Dean's never thought deeply on the combination of 'Cas' and 'kids'; it's one of those things that just stretches beyond weird territory and into the blessed unknown.  Also, the few experiences he's observed with actual interaction involved non-standard children, such as demonically possessed or Anti-Christs, which isn't what he'd call a good baseline (please God, let Cas show unusual insight and not mention that, ever).  
If he's ever interacted with a normal child (and remembered it, anyway), Dean will be really surprised; nothing he's gotten from Cas so far indicates his awareness goes much farther than 'immature versions of the adult of the species' and really, he should have tested him with puppies and kittens, got an idea on Cas's concept of 'cute', 'adorable', and 'awesome'.  He's got squirrels--small and possibly cute, who knows--that were used for meals before they got real food again, which tells him nothing useful except more proof Cas' hatred of food isn't unjustified.  
Which means there's no good reason for Cas to be there but a lot of very, very shitty ones.
"If you did this to convince him to--" Dean starts, trying to sound threatening while facing someone who can (maybe?) get the earth to swallow him whole or something if she gets annoyed.
"I didn't know!" she answers, looking harassed. "We were touring the fields, and he said he was interested in attempting to commune with the earth while in this form--"
"And you believed him?" The guy who invented transcendental orgies because meditation was too boring asked to voluntarily sit still, clear his mind, and stare at the dirt for a while: he supposes Cas could have said straight out he was making a break for it for purposes unknown, but maybe that would have been a little too subtle.
Teresa's eyes narrow dangerously, but to his surprise, Alison nods with a resigned expression.  "My fault, I should have warned you about that; his attention span's shorter than mine."
From the appalled look on Teresa's face, that's pretty goddamn short.  "So why--"
"Because he's an idiot.  Wait here," Dean snarls to Alison, starting out the door of admin and across the town square toward the daycare with Teresa on his heels.  "How long ago?"
"Less than an hour," Teresa offers, coming up beside him.  "He wants to see the kids, doesn't he?"
That's pretty much the only thing Dean's sure of; the why is still up in the air.
Entering the foyer, Dean starts to tell her to split up and do this room by room, but a nervous-looking Serafina is just coming from the hall, and the relief on her face tells him finding Cas isn't gonna be a problem.  "Where is he?"
"Second floor, third door on the left," she begins, and Dean starts for the stairs, taking them two at a time: they switched up the rooms when they got the daycare cleaned out for reasons Dean's pretty sure were good ones but right now he can't remember, like he can't remember what group's in that room. 
Reaching the top, he starts to count doors and abruptly realizes he doesn't need to. One's open and apparently a hot spot for kids to gather, clustered close to the doorway and staring inside.  A little farther down the hall, a couple of people on daycare shift linger, watching the kids with resigned expressions but not making any effort to get them back to their classrooms.
A hand closes over his arm.  "Serafina says--"
"That's them." He doesn't need Teresa to confirm: thirteen, so the other two must be inside. The oldest girl picks up a five year old, bracing him on her hip so the kid can see inside, big brown eyes wide.  
Height has its advantages; coming up well behind them, he can just see over their heads, and barely stifles a surprised smile.
From the look, this is the new toddler room; surprisingly good hand-drawn pictures of Mickey Mouse and Goofy and the entire Loony Toons cast as well as crayon drawings line the warm yellow walls, low tables covered with crayons and markers and paper surrounded by tiny chairs scattered around the room, and plastic crates overflowing with toys stacked against the walls.
Cas is sitting rail-straight on a colorful rug in what Dean assumes is the reading-slash-nap area with a worn hardcover book in his hands and surrounded by ages two through four, with Glenn sitting beside him, eyes carefully not darting to the door even though it's obvious he's aware they've got an audience.  Ambient noise makes it impossible to hear what he's solemnly reading, but Dean bets its awesome and Dr. Seuss-like, because Cas has a thing for rhyming (explanation for Phil, maybe?).  He would love to know how Glenn got him to do it and reminds himself to ask later.
"Serafina said they gave up herding the kids back to class," Teresa murmurs, though why she bothers he's not sure; those kids aren't paying attention to anything outside this room.  "They just come right back, so why fight it?"
"They didn't react like this last time."  He glances down at Teresa.  "Did they?" 
Teresa's mouth twitches.  "Last time he was here, it wasn't to see the kids." His bewildered expression must convey he's not getting it.  "He wanted to see what you were doing, Dean.  Five, maybe ten seconds."
He looks at her uncertainly.  
"Might not have mattered anyway," she continues, eyes going back to the door and narrowing speculatively.  "That was before."
"If they don't remember…."
Glenn enthusiastically leads the clapping after Cas closes the book with the kind of ceremony due a major religious rite, staring at the kids like a deer realizing the headlights aren't good news, but it's mixed up with utter fascination.  Only this age group, Dean thinks, wouldn't notice they're being studied under a Cas-shaped microscope; he almost can't wait to hear his observations later.
As Glenn jumps to his feet, waving toward the tables, Cas's attention fixes on the tiny brown-eyed blonde Dean recognizes as Tony's younger daughter Lily, and Paul, Claudia's youngest son; with his dark hair in its first careful twists, he looks enough like Derek to be his brother by blood except for the startlingly blue-green eyes.  Getting to their feet, they ignore the others, wandering up to Cas with the open curiosity of kids who've never been anything but welcome wherever they go.
"Lily was the youngest in the group," Teresa says softly, "but Dolores put Paul at about three months and change.  I don't think this has anything to do with memory."
Toddling closer to Cas (who can indeed sit very still when he wants to), they peer into his face, Paul's tiny eyebrows drawn together for a long moment before he says something.  Cas's eyes widen, then he slowly nods, and with a kid's lack of boundaries, they crawl into his lap, Lily trying to stand up. Cas steadies her before she tumbles backward, and she breaks into a bubbling laugh, chubby arms wrapping around his neck.
Cas's expression answers one question, at least; he does like kids.
Dean swallows, watching as Cas tentatively rests a hand on her back, looking down at Paul's happy grin with an expression it's no effort at all to interpret.  The blue eyes flicker to the door, widening as they take in the audience, and like it was permission they were waiting for, they trickle inside.
"It wasn't supposed to notice, so it didn't," Teresa murmurs, almost as if to himself as the kids settle down on the carpet.  "Earth can't lie, but it does know how to confuse the issue if I don't know the right questions to ask.  Not bad."  She glances up at him.  "You knew."
"Which part?" The oldest girl--Jessica, got it--asks Cas something, dark head tilted curiously; there and gone, amusement flickers over Cas's face, but he answers with the seriousness of profound dialogue, and she sits back, satisfied.  "Only thing I couldn’t figure out was how the hell he got that goddess to go along with this, but if Alison and Lucifer can't read his mind, good luck a goddess getting through." Too bad it would be two years and change and a meeting with fucking Lucifer to find out about that little trick again.  "Not bad for a plan made up on the spot; it worked perfectly."
Teresa's eyes dart back to the kids inside, then to him.  "They survived.  That's what you meant."
"Not like she'd know he was lying through his teeth about what he did with their memories," Dean answers softly.  "Jesus, she even gave him the power to do it.  Angels being better at manipulating human memory and everything: he must have pulled out all the stops for that one."
Teresa's eyebrows climb disbelievingly.  "Then why didn't he--"
"I know; he doesn't."  There's nothing on Cas's face right now but interest in all the immature humans surrounding him who define the difference between what you remember and what you know in your bones.   If Dean was guessing, right at this moment Cas is way too distracted by the company to remember why he came here in the first place, but seeing Dean watching might just remind him.  "We should--"
"--go, yeah," Teresa agrees, falling into step with him on their way to the stairs.  "How'd you know?"
"Five minute rule."  Bobby would shit himself; someone actually paying attention to his words of wisdom.  "If you can't kill it and you can't run away from it, buy time to figure out how to do one of those things. Also applies to saving kids from goddesses whose purpose was just those women with a design stuck in their heads you don't know how to get rid of." The fucked-up part is it would have worked, too; the end of the Apocalypse would have taken care of this little problem by way of mass death of humanity. If that's not irony, he's not sure what is.
Reaching the first floor, Teresa stops him, tilting her head toward the kitchen before leading him down the hall.  It's empty, which is a relief, and Dean settles against the counter to think.  About what, he's not sure, but he thinks--just maybe--he knows why Cas wanted to see them for himself, and it sure as hell wasn't sentimentality or guilt.
"Cas really has a thing for figuring out how to hide in plain sight," he says abruptly, feeling the pieces slowly assemble into something he maybe should have guessed last night.  "There was a time--after he rebelled, the Host hunted us constantly." " He hesitates, thinking about that year on the run with Sam, all the times that Castiel was there, but now he wonders uneasily about all the times he wasn't, how somehow, he never got around to asking about.  Cas was hunted for three years here, two longer than Castiel had to deal with, and then he ended up in Chitaqua, where he was hunted all over again with nowhere to hide.  "Off the top of my head, I'm not sure there's anyone who hasn't fucked him over and back again.  That's gotta do something to you."
"You live and you learn." Glancing over, he sees her staring hard at the wall, eyes dark. "And then you get up and try again, because they don't decide the terms on which life is lived.  And you meet someone…" She pauses, mouth curving in a slow, private smile.  "Someone whose pick-up line was 'I knew I felt the earth move the first time I saw you' when I told her what I was."
"Oh God," he says, appalled. 
"Exactly."  Teresa's smile fades.  "Cas may not remember what happened in the church, but it's not like it's not obvious.  The earth doesn't answer to anyone it doesn't want to, even its own gods.  It had to be someone with dominion over Creation itself who could give that kind of order and have it obeyed."  He looks at her in surprise.  "Perk of being bound to it: there aren't a lot of secrets it can keep from me, and even fewer it would want to.  I thought about this all last night and this morning, and what you just said, about Cas and hiding in plain sight, that makes sense now.  That bubble was grounded in the earth so the earth itself would hide it, and that included everything inside it.  Anyone but me looking at it wouldn't have even seen the church itself."
"Alison and Manuel both saw the church when you got there," he counters, but he thinks he knows where she's going with this.  "But if you aren't with a bruja blanca so the earth knows it's okay, what are you gonna believe; the earth telling you nothing but rocks and dirt are here, or your own two eyes?  It's not even a lie; there definitely dirt and rocks around."
"Exactly." Teresa studies him for a long moment. "He doesn't want to admit it."
"He's just not thinking about it.  He's good at that little trick."
"Do you know why?"
He thinks about the way Cas smiled when he talked about gods and tricks: jokes that last centuries, so why not two years?  "Yeah, I think I do."
Alison and Tony, being fucking turncoats, agree with Teresa (another of them) that Dean shouldn't be at the meeting.
"Other than the fact you look two steps from jittering out of your skin and you'll scare them to death?" Alison asks caustically, cornering him on the first floor in admin before he can get upstairs.  "I can't have Chitaqua's leader in that room, Dean."
From the first step, Tony nods agreement, one hand resting on the bannister.
"What," Dean asks, outraged, "do you think I'm gonna do?"
"Nothing!" Alison answers impatiently.  "But what they'll see is the man who leads a small army watching them, and unarmed or not, you're a living, breathing warning.  They don't need that."
"This is just a goddamn talk!"  Turning, Dean paces toward one of the empty desks shoved against the wall, wondering how the hell he's supposed to deal with this.  "Can I at least listen or--"
"I'll be fine," Cas says, slumped against the bannister and looking bored.  "I understand some things humans do are best done on their own, so as to develop character--"
"You," Dean says, pointing at him, "have all the character you need.  You got enough for three people, okay?"
"I think you're outvoted," Alison says, despite the fact Dean doesn't remember agreeing this was a democracy (it's not).  "Go talk to Amanda, watch training, take a drive, but Dean--this is proving good intentions time.  You cannot be here, they have to know you're not here, that everyone associated with Chitaqua is safely in the training field because this has nothing to do with the militia being here.  This is about Ichabod's kids and what happened to them."
"Goddamn it--"
"I got it, Alison," a voice says from the door to the street, and Dean spins around to see Amanda come inside, pink cheeked and breathless before exchanging a glance with Cas like he needs confirmation this was planned.  "Come on, Dean," she says coaxingly.  "One on one, I'll even let you win.  Maybe."
Dean looks between her and the group by the stairs helplessly.  Cas can probably take an entire room of worried parents without even breaking a sweat, he gets that; he also gets that disappointment never killed anyone, but he's so fucking tired of it, and he doesn't think how much hope will survive if he sees it on Cas's face, unsurprised, because Dean was wrong about people.
"It'll be fine," Tony promises, jerking his head toward the stairs.  "We should get up there."
Amanda's beside him before he even realizes she's moved, one arm sliding through his.  "Let's go," she says more quietly, pulling him unresistingly toward the door. "Mark's drilling the kids, so I got some time.  What do you want to do?"
Looking back, Dean watches Alison, Teresa, Tony, and finally Cas vanish up the stairs.  "Anyone on the target range?"
Amanda fails not to look impressed, though she makes an effort, he'll give her that.   Retrieving the targets, she drops them on the growing pile, circling to raise his right hand and frowning at  tremor from before he switched hands, then glancing his left, steady as a goddamn rock. He wasn't careful, again, and he's got to stop doing that.
"Hold up your arm," she says, tugging back his right sleeve and running her fingers over the scarring from the brownie, fingers trickling faintly over the bandaged Croat bite.  "No sensation yet?"
"Not much," he says, making himself look at the still-ugly red-raw ropes of scar tissue extending from two inches below his elbow to an inch above the Croat bite; at this rate, his entire right arm's gonna be unrecognizable.  "Vera said it could come back or not, which, useful to know.  That nursing degree of hers really paid off."
Amanda rolls her eyes, placing a hand under his elbow and taking the weight; the tremor eases slightly, but overwork is overwork, and he hopes no one wants him to sign anything today, because that's not happening.  "Any weakness generally or is it just when you overwork it?"
"I'm not sure," he admits as she stares at his skin like she's reading hieroglyphs by guess.  "Why?"
"Thinking," she says absently, cocking her head before removing her hand.  "On your very special shooting range at home, Cas having you work your left more?  Your accuracy's better than it was before the fever, which is saying something.  Probably better than mine now," she adds with a grin. "Always had the best eye of anyone I ever met."
"Pretty much every time I go out," he admits, feeling a flush of pride and trying not to think he just won a non-existent competition with the other Dean Winchester as well as Amanda, but yeah, he's thinking it, because that's exactly what he did.  "Got a recommendation, sir?"
"Funny."  She takes the nine millimeter, checking it before returning it to the weapons table.  They've hit everything on it, and he's got the feeling Amanda's trying to decide how creative she should get.  When she turns around, though, she surprises him.  "Cas gave me Vera's notes, and I think right now it's as healed as it's gonna get.  It was one hell of an infection and between ripping out the stitches while you were feverish and the drainage cuts, there was a lot of damage that can't be fixed.  Biggest danger is what you can't do anything about: it's gonna degrade, but how much is anyone's guess."  Before he can take that in, she adds, "I don't think it matters, though."
Dean blinks at her, distracted from starting a nice session of self-pity.  "What?"
"First, you should know me and Cas have been planning for this," she says easily. "Exercises you've been doing until now were light so nothing would interfere with the healing.  Now we know that part's over, we start working on building the muscle up again, and I'll tell you right now it's gonna suck. Cas says you can tell when the tremor's about to start; your job, and you kind of have to accept it, is extending the time you got until then.  Strength will help, but what we need here is endurance, and then learning how to compensate for the tremor when you have to shoot anyway."
"Then how doesn't it matter--"
"That's second, and I was getting there.Dean, how often are yo  u gonna need to shoot that long without a rest?" she demands.  "Short range, even with a tremor, the margin of error is pretty good; long range, switch hands and be done with it.  You miss them close up, switch hands and then punch them in the face. Tremor's not gonna affect a fist to the face with your shoulder behind it, you get my meaning?"
Dean blinks, startled.  "Uh--"
"Hunting is the art of the practical," she continues, ignoring him.  "You taught us that in the field again after Cas banged it into us during training.  You are never just gonna stand there for hours with your arm up shooting shit; the enemy'll be bored with that even faster than you.  The only time this might--and I emphasize the might--be a problem is with the rifles or shotguns, and that's just a weight issue.  Come on, they're bulky and show us down on the run, anyway and you're sure as hell not going to be carrying it in your hand for hours.  Jesus, you're hunter and we're pretty fucking mobile on a hunt.  This is barely a blip."
He wets his lips. "I don't like having that kind of limit."
Amanda shrugs, unimpressed.  "I don't like having a leg that remembers when I broke my femur at age twenty-one and didn't finish rehab when I run too long."  He pauses, scanning her legs blankly, like maybe she'll suddenly fall over or something.  "Weirdly, I will rarely need to sprint five miles, and when I do, the least of my problems will be my leg at that point.  How I got into that situation is way more worrying, you know?"
"Five miles?"
"Three, fine, and some of it at a jog," she bites out, looking annoyed.  "Welcome to the twenty-first century; we have jeeps."
"We could run out of gas," Dean points out.
"I'll get a horse."  She shrugs.  "Hunters don't survive because their bodies are in pristine condition; they survive because their brains are in working order and that's the best weapon you'll ever have.  The rest--that's just details."
Dean wrinkles his nose at Amanda's smirk, sighing when she inclines her head toward the conveniently placed chairs and bottles of water, because they're responsible about being well-hydrated.  Dropping into the chair, Dean takes a long drink from the bottle Amanda offers as she joins him.
"I should be doing more before now," he says finally, rubbing a heel into the dirt and wondering if the earth is telling Teresa he's sulking and if she'll tell Cas.  Very crazy, he thinks hopefully, but the idea just sits there like that's actually sane.  Jesus, his life.  "Should have gone out in the field more, fevers are almost gone--"
"You're what, three days from the last one?" Amanda asks, eyes traveling to his wrist and staring significantly before meeting his eyes.  "Dean, we don't get time to heal up--really heal up--because we don't take the time to do it.  I didn't, and I'm paying for it with a two mile--"
"I thought you said three."
"--fuck you, lots of jogging for the three, maybe limping," she says, taking a drink from her bottle.  "Loners can pull that shit and regret it later; lucky us, we got an entire camp to enforce the beauty of the healing process.  Deal with it."
"We may not have that kind of time."
"If you're set on jumping off a cliff," she says, "at least wait long enough to get there to do it. Otherwise--no reason to jump, unless you just want to make dust clouds."
Dean turns in his chair to stare at her satisfied expression. "That was a terrible analogy."
"Obviously not, since you understood it," she points out smugly.
She's got him there.  Taking another drink, Dean frowns toward the distant training field, Ichabod in the two mile distance, then at the sun sinking toward the horizon.  "So this is taking a while."
"Good sign," Amanda assures him.  "They're listening. When it begins with 'so your kids are part of an ongoing human sacrifice', listening is something that's gotta be worked up to."
"Hopefully they didn't start with that."
"I'm sure they eased into it," Amanda agrees.  "Tomorrow's winter solstice.  You know what that means, right?"
Dean racks his brain for whatever unholy event is associated with solstice--something about the lack of sun really makes people crazy?  Freaky ritual?  Yule log?--when he stumbles over the obvious answer.  "Four days until Christmas."
"Merry Christmas," Amanda corrects him, nudging his shoulder.  "So what'd you get him?"
"Get him?" he echoes blankly, then realizes what she's talking about.  "Wait, like a present?"
"Yeah?" She frowns at him.  "You forgot?"
"Uh, no."  It doesn't count if he didn't think of it at all, but that's probably worse.  Since this is his serious imaginary relationship here, and also apparently Christmas.  "We don't do that.  Do you do that?"
"Am I half-married to anyone?" she asks.
"Besides Vera?"
Amanda's eyes narrow.  "You're pushing it."
"Just saying, her gorgeous perfection and everything--"
"I was so drunk," Amanda mourns, slumping in her chair.  "Rules of drinking games: we don't talk about drinking games and what was said.  Don't turn this into an arm's race, Dean; I'll win."
"My lips," Dean lies, "are sealed.  Unlike you, I don't need to be bribed with Eldritch Horror."  Amanda scowls at him. "By the way, how'd it go this morning?"
"Fine," she says in surprise. "Cas said it was okay.  Did you, uh--"
"He woke me up and said he'd watch and I could sleep in," Dean answers. "Not much to see; was there chanting, waving hands, the earth moving?"
"There was coffee and naan with butter and cheese," she tells him.  "Rabin brought me burritos from breakfast during break."
"It's nopales con huevos."
"It's wrapped in a bread substance: burrito.  If the bread is hard: taco."  He cocks his head, blinking at her.  "Yeah, I'm in beginner Spanish class an hour every night now, Manuel officiating.  Como esta, puta?"
Dean takes a drink of water, fighting down the temptation to verbalize her relationship with sheep in Yiddish, via Joe being awesome.  "You scared Cas last night."
"I know."  Amanda sighs, setting the empty bottle on the ground.  "I apologized for that."
"Good."  Finishing his bottle, he tries not to check the horizon again; it's just gonna confirm the sun is lower and they're still waiting.  "Don’t do it again.  Check in before you start giving blood to people, you have no idea what that shit can do.  Ask Cas: there's a list, it's unreal."
"I won't," she answers.  "Dean?"
He looks at her.
"I'm sorry I scared you," she says in a breath, like she's not sure this is a good idea but doing it anyway.  "Just throwing it out there."
"Me?  I'm fine," he answers, crossing his arms.  "Not even--a little, maybe."
"Right."  Abruptly, she swallows, and Dean closes his eyes.  "Looks like a jeep's coming from Ichabod."
"Yeah."  Dean takes a deep breath, standing up, checking the sun just touching the ground, and nods to himself.  "Let's go."
Dean isn't even pretending he's casually leaning against the fence as the jeep comes to a stop.  Behind them, Mark's wrapping up training for the day, oblivious to the drama happening as the passenger side door opens in slow-motion and Alison gets out, Teresa coming from the backseat.  Taking a deep breath, he hears the driver's side door close, Cas circling the jeep, and wonders why it's so goddamn hard to look at his face.
"So," Alison says, shutting the door, expression half-guilty, half furtive triumph, and Dean suddenly knows exactly why they didn't want him at that meeting. "I should--"
"We're going to try and unmake the design in  the children's memories," Cas interrupts.  "Emphasis on try."
Yeah, how the hell did he not guess this was coming.  "How--"
"Something I didn't consider last night," Cas says as Teresa joins Alison, and from the look on her face, she's in on it, too.  "Even if the earth can't protect her, Teresa's attachment to Alison will allow her to pull Alison out should she become distressed before any damage occurs, just as she did when Alison was catatonic.  Tomorrow morning will be an experiment to see if she can do that much while I simply observe; if she can, then I can judge if that would be enough time to alter the children's memories since while doing that, I won't be able to concentrate on anything else, including her."
"And the parents?" Dean hears himself ask in a voice way too calm for how he's feeling right now.  "They're okay with this?"
"Yes," Alison says, glancing at Teresa.  "Cas told them everything, and they consented."
Dean watches Cas watching him; it's not about you, he said.  The choice belongs to the people doing it, he gets that.  
"So," he says into the awkward silence, "it's about time for dinner.  I'll cook."
Everyone goes to bed early--from Alison and Teresa's expressions, it's been a long day for them, too, or maybe they have the crazy idea that Dean's kind of pissed--and he patiently waits for Cas to fulfill his shower and brushing his teeth habits, wondering just how long it will take for him to--
"I would have told you," Cas says abruptly, apparently realizing that he's already dressed for bed and has zero reason to need to search his bag for this long.  "I wasn't sure--"
"Sure enough to get Alison to keep me out of the room this afternoon," Dean interrupts, sitting up against the headboard.  "Afraid I'd talk you out of it or agree you should do it for the greater good?"
Cas winces, closing his eyes briefly before pushing to his feet.  "Dean--"
"Not," he continues mildly, "that it's got anything to do with me.  Because this, it's not about me, right?"
"They knew me."  Cas looks up, and yeah, that's what he thought. "And I knew them.  Teresa confirmed the earth wouldn't answer her question on who--ordered it to ignore the church until it returned to the regular time stream, because it can't lie to her.  I gave her two names, however, and when she asked, it was silent for only one of them."
"Yours."  
Cas nods, obviously bracing himself for the obvious question.  "Okay, if the earth--if you tell it--something, release it, whatever--can it tell us what happened?"
Looking surprised (relieved), Cas drifts to the foot of the bed and sits down.  "It couldn't tell us very much, even if translation and context weren't a problem.  The corruption of the earth would have been its priority, and I doubt it even noticed--or cared--what was actually happening in the church itself, it not being earth," he answers, pulling one knee against his chest and frowning.  "Even if it could, however, I wouldn't release it."
Dean blinks.  "Why?"
"When Teresa said--what she understood from the earth--is because she's bound to it and it has no reason to be less than entirely truthful," Cas answers slowly.  "However, should it be asked by someone else, the answer would depend on how precise the wording of the question asked.  Anything outside that, the answer would be the equivalent of 'I have no idea what that question means'."
"Earth can play dumb, who knew."  Dean blows out a breath.  "Wanna share the reason?"
"Because if I went through the trouble of ordering it not to reveal who gave the order, I probably first asked exactly how to make sure the earth never had to give the answer," he says, resting his chin on his knee.  "Just in case someone of higher rank in the hierarchy showed up to countermand me, and using that, could simply go back in time to watch what happened for themselves."
"Lucifer."  Okay, so that changes things.  "Why would he care what was in that church, Cas? The design?"
"He can't see it."  Right, he forgot about that.  "The children wouldn't particularly concern him, either, and while the goddess would be of interest, the bubble would have been set after she left.  There must have been something in that church that I didn't want him to know about, but what…."
"So Lucifer--I mean, this is the guy that took out all the gods, he's that paranoid. Why wouldn't he check it the bubble just on principle?"
To Dean's surprise, Cas starts to smile, like he did when he showed Dean how he powered the wards.  "Lucifer doesn't have a sense of humor."
"What?"
"I think it may bother him, actually," Cas continues, smile widening maliciously.  "Not that he'd admit it, of course--it's beneath him--but this isn't something he simply chooses not to understand; he actually can't.  I'd be very surprised if he even understood what 'fun' was, much less the amount of effort one will put into achieving just that.  Time bubbles are usually part of a game--something I would be amazed he could even conceptualize--as well as a useful way for the human-hybrid offspring of gods to gain full maturity quickly, I forgot to mention that part.  You can't play unless you choose to be subject to linear time; otherwise, it's just a river, and to continue the metaphor, it's a very big river and this is very small."
"You can't see the slowest part unless you know what you're looking for." 
Cas nods.  "If Gabriel found it, he'd check it just to see what it was, and if he won.  Lucifer, on the very off-chance he even lowered himself to acknowledge something so trivial, would find it beneath him to even show interest, as one does when they don't understand the joke, and voluntarily subject himself to linear time just to confirm his ignorance--no.  The Host suffers from the same problem, and Gabriel used it to his advantage."  Abruptly, Cas's smile fades.  "Gabriel and Lucifer were once very close, and he knew Lucifer very well.  Hiding something important inside a game: that is very much something Gabriel would do."
"You miss him," Dean says without thinking and immediately corrects their course.  "Okay, yeah, we didn't have a great relationship, but compared to the rest of your family, definitely my favorite."
"I'm sorry to hear your feelings for Anael have suffered a revision," he answers, raising an eyebrow  "Also, thank you for the interesting conversation I had with Alison--"
"Jesus," Dean groans, covering his face; what was he thinking?  "Sorry, last night--lightweight, remember?"
"I've never aspired to out-perform Zeus's hideously complicated family relationships while on earth," Cas muses.  "However, fucking my sister's ex-boyfriend, with whom I also share a brother via his current vessel and who I resurrected in what could be considered analogous to--"
"Don't say it, Cas."
"--creating life--it's certainly far more straightforward than some of the ways Zeus fathered offspring, but that's not saying much." Abruptly Cas tilts his head, looking disturbingly thoughtful.  "I don't object in principle, you understand, but had I known this was a potential future, I would have chosen a female vessel.  Surely by now, we'd all be waiting with bated breath to discover if you or some other human fathered my nephilim offspring.  It's an Apocalypse; a hybrid abomination with tendencies toward giantism and megalomania would fit in perfectly."
Dean stares at him in horror.  "How long have you been thinking about this?"
"Alison told me before the meeting, I assume to add a note of levity before I faced worried parents.  It was a long meeting and a great deal of it required I merely sit there and try to project righteous serenity and kindness toward all mankind."
"They buy that?"
"Apparently."  Cas takes a deep breath before abruptly adding, "I should have told you this earlier, but--Phil doesn't possess a uterus.  However, that is immaterial in this case, as he seems very unclear on the facts of biology while I'm this body."
"Fuck my life, I'm gonna kill Alison--wait, what was that about Phil?"  Dean stops staring resentfully at the door to see Cas sigh.  "You talked to him? When?"  Then, incredulous, "Hold up, he really thinks you can knock him up with--how?"
"If I apologize for not believing you and assure you I told him that I was deeply in love with you as well as sexually enslaved and will therefore forsake all others unto my literal death," Cas says quickly, blue eyes haunted, "will you let me relegate that part of the conversation to the very farthest reaches of my memory?"
Dean hesitates; there's not a lot that would make Cas look like that.  "That bad?"
"Dean, I will promise to forsake all others until my literal death, thus dooming myself to a life of tragic celibacy and unsettlingly frequent masturbation, if I don't have to--would that conversation define the concept of 'awkward'?"
"No," Dean answers sympathetically, feeling vaguely like he should be patting Cas's shoulder or hugging him or something.  "That's trauma, and repressing is legit; go for it."  Cas relaxes, the haunted look beginning to fade, which is why he thinks it's okay to ask, "So he's gonna stop, right?"
Cas closes his eyes--oh Jesus, not good. "I’m not sure.  It's your turn; deal with this, I don't care how."
"How do you want me to…." Dean trails off; he likes this plan.  "I can do this."
"Are duels still an acceptable way to deal with someone encroaching on a romantic relationship?"
Dean looks at his left hand complacently, remembering all those targets this afternoon.  "We'll let Phil decide."  Glancing at Cas, he notes he has both knees pulled up and may be clutching them against his chest; oh, Phil's got this coming.  "You need anything?"  Hugs are definitely on the table.
"What were you drinking last night?" Cas asks without hesitation.  "Is there more?"
Or that.  Dean slides off the bed. "You got it."
With the lights off, the thin spill of silvery-grey coming from the window turns the room into ghostly shadows, wall vanishing behind a curtain of gloom.  Could be the alcohol--not like he's got Cas's night vision--but he has no problem making out Cas at all, sprawled stomach-down on the bedcovers beside him, socked toes just touching the edge of the mattress, head pillowed on one arm and three fingers of fucking amazing whiskey clutched in his free hand.
He's not the only one working with a liver that's confused; Cas is relaxed to the point of boneless, squinting at his third drink like it's betrayed him but he can't remember exactly why.  "How long have I been…" Trailing off, he frowns at the cup, then at Dean.  "Did I stop drinking?  When?"
"We stopped drinking," Dean corrects him, taking a very moderate sip from his own cup; last night was educational on his current limits.  "Well, we had coffee.  Me anyway, but I was dying; what's your excuse?"
Cas lifts his head to take a larger than recommended for the long-term sober drink--oh, mistake, Dean really should warn him about that--before dropping back to the bed with a grunt.  "It's very pleasant.  Addictively so."
"Coffee?" To be fair, Dean's really drinking, just not nearly as much.  He's not Cas's mother--freakish Greek gods and their freakishness--and if Cas needs this after facing Phil's creepy, creepy passion head-on as well as everything else, he gets it.  Judging Cas's exact state of slump, he thinks just maybe it's time they talked about the thing they're not talking about; like the reason Cas went to the daycare today.  "Cas?"
Cas wrinkles his nose, and Dean will shoot himself before acknowledging it's kind of goddamn adorable.  "Hmm?"
This was a much better idea before he actually had to figure out how to actually do it.  "The kids….what happened at the daycare?  When you were with the kids?"
Cas half-sits up and finishes the cup, thrusting it carelessly into Dean's lap before rolling onto his back.   Catching it before it rolls onto the mattress, Dean gratefully sets aside hangover temptation on the bedside table before turning his full attention to Cas.
"My family," Cas announces, sounding painfully earnest, "tried to kill, possess, or manipulate yours, and with surprising success considering their utter lack of anything resembling competence or subtlety.  It helps to have a playbook written by my Father; all they had to do was follow it to the letter while he conveniently took an unexpected roadtrip for eons."  He wets his lips, a faint impression of pink, there and gone.  "I miss him."
Dean nods; he's not talking about his Father right now. "He was your brother."
"I didn't--that concept is foreign to them, to feel that absence."  Dean notes the switch of pronouns in interest and files it away for when he has a clearer head.  "When I made--the first time I summoned Lucifer inside the wards, I thought--Gabriel would have approved.  Mourned the lack of a chocolate aspect, of course, but you can't have everything.  He would have….."
"You wanted to think he made that time bubble around the church," Dean says softly.  "That he was there."
"It's not proof, I have no idea if I could sense his Grace on those children….this is so much like him, all of it.   I thought how he must have laughed when he saw the tape."  Turning his head, he looks at Dean.  "Gabriel, Loki, messenger, archangel, pagan god: you and Sam knew him better than I did.  Yet last night, all I could think was how Gabriel would react in the cabin, because the wards would assure he couldn't see you when you punched him.  He'd summon Lucifer into the wards for weeks without stopping just for the sheer pleasure of doing it.  He'd think of entirely new ways to annoy Lucifer without leaving the comfort of the camp and provide everyone with confections while we viewed the footage."
In the splash of weak moonlight, Dean sees the silvery track of tears.  "Hey."  Scooting closer, he wipes a thumb across Cas's cheek before he can think about what he's doing.  "It's okay."
"But it wasn't him," Cas whispers.  "I suppose I was the only one who thought--thought it might be.  Because I wanted…it's not as if he had any reason to come out of hiding since then.  It's different with angels, especially--why would he bother just for me?  Why," he whispers, "did I even care?"
Dean's not sure what to say to that.  
"Tell me about grief again," Cas demands, voice cracking.  "Tell me how he could die years ago and only now do I feel his absence?  I didn't know him, so tell me why--why now--of all times--why all I could think of is how badly I want my brother and wish for his return?" He sucks in a breath, looking at nothing.  "In the church….  She died two years ago, but I hadn't seen her in millennia.  I knew she was dead with the other gods, I've known for years, but why is it now--I want to remember what happened in the church, if I said goodbye to her, as I couldn't with him.  Time heals nothing, you said, but you didn't tell me it could be years before I even felt the wound. How is that fair?"
"It's not," Dean says quietly.
"I prayed for him!" Cas snarls.  "Saint Gabriel, Angel of the Incarnation, Messenger of God, I beseech thee, as you consoled our Savior in his agony and Mary in her sorrows and Joseph in his trials, console me for the loss of my Brother in your return.  Saint Gabriel, Prince of Heaven and Scourge of Disbelievers, who clothed in your righteousness did so stupidly face Lucifer alone, as if that would work, and died by his hand and by his will, surely that was another trick, so in your wisdom return from wherever you fucked off to.  Now would be acceptable, two years ago would have been better, but I've learned to take what I can get.  Saint Gabriel, Strength of God, Defender of the Faithful, if this wasn't your idea of a terrible joke, I ask you especially for this favor: fuck you for leaving.  Amen."  He swallows, blue eyes wet. "Two useless prayers in the span of five days; it truly is a time of miracles.  Tell me--tell me how this makes sense?"
"I don't know."  The shittiest part of grief is experience means jack shit when it came to someone else's or even your own; it's brand new every goddamn time.  "I never said it made sense."
"Is this human?" Cas asks bitterly.  "This is what you call living; the constant awareness of your future as an inevitable string of losses, feeling each new absence in accumulation, knowing they will never again be filled?  Unless you're fortunate enough to die first and simply be an absence for someone else?  Tell me the attraction of mortality again: I think I've forgotten."
Dean sits back on the mattress, wondering uneasily how it is he's counseling an angel through an existential crisis about the meaning of life.  
"Five days ago, I almost watched you die."
Yeah, he knew this was coming. "I didn't."
"You didn't," Cas concedes bitterly.  "He did, and left me behind; you didn't, but you certainly tried.  Tell me how I can heal from what didn't actually happen when I'm not sure if I ever will from what did?  If time can't do the job, I'm open to suggestions on what might." The red-rimmed eyes narrow.  "Dean, Righteous Man and Defender of Humanity, I beseech thee, five days ago you wanted me to put a bullet in your head, so I ask you especially for this favor: fuck you for even asking.  Amen."
It's an effort not flinch. "You done yet?"
"You're still alive," he answers. "So I suppose that means no, I'm not.  When will I be, Dean?"
There's no way to mistake what he's asking, but it's not like Dean really believed--he's not the right Dean, he always knew that.  "Do you want to be?"
"I don’t know."  After a moment, he sits up. "Alison, Teresa, and I will start at dawn.  There's no reason for you to--"
"Get up, since you don't want me there, either."  He really wants to take satisfaction in the fact Cas flinches, but he can't really feel anything right now.  Pulling the blankets out from under him, he eases beneath them, rolling to face the wall, shutting his eyes like maybe he might actually sleep tonight. "Night."
He wonders what he should be feeling--anger, frustration, sympathy, something--but there's nothing but a hollow space, like something's been taken and he can't remember when.
@@@@@@
--Day 140--

"What are you doing out here again?" Amanda asks, wiping her face as she and Mark take a break from attempted homicide (her) and nearly dying (him), also known as how crazy people have fun before sunup.  She flickers a wary glance to the sun hovering just above the horizon.  "You know you aren't a morning person, right?  Cas promised everyone he'd break it to you."
Dean lets his glare over the top of his thermal cup of desperately needed coffee be his response to that bullshit.  He's great at mornings.
"Anyway," she continues, "I thought you were gonna watching the thing that Cas and Alison--"
"Change of plans," he interrupts, taking a drink of coffee so he can pretend he doesn't see her smile fade. "So this is what you do every morning?"
"Pretty much," Mark answers, leaning against the fence and grinning up at him, smugly secure in the fact his ass wasn't stuck in a bed for weeks and his right arm works just fine.  Or maybe Dean's projecting, who knows?  "Why?  You wanna go a round?"
It's a stupid question, he gets that, but his specialty is stupid questions, both in the asking and the answering, and he's got a record to protect.
"Sure." Hopping off the fence, he sets down his thermal cup, and Mark's horror is almost but not quite worth the beating he's gonna get, or worse, the one he won't because he's still recovering and they gotta be careful with him.  Tugging off his coat, he drapes it over the top rail of the fence and looks between two dubious faces challengingly.  "Well?"
"I really don't want Cas to kill me," Mark starts, which was of all the wrong things to say probably the worst.
"He won't care."  Dean strips off his sweater--and by will alone controls the shivering from the not-subzero-but-close temperature this morning--and tosses it at the fence.  Amanda's eyes widen, but before she can say anything, he frowns.  "What was that?"
"What was what?" she asks in confusion.  "Hey, target practice, that would be--"
"Maybe I want to get dirty," he counters.
"I'll throw some dirt at you," Amanda snaps back.  "Dean, just--"
"Sucker punch work for you?" He's got enough sense left that he aims the punch for Mark when he dramatically misses.  Mark jerks back, looking vaguely surprised and a little amused that Dean even tried, or maybe he's projecting again.  Humiliation's started already, so why stop now? "Well?"
Amanda tilts her head, studying him with an unreadable expression.  "On the training field, there's only one god and that's me.  There are rules, and you break them, everything stops."
"What?" Mark yelps.
"I'll put you on the ground if you say one more word," she adds over her shoulder before she hops up on the top rail of the fence and hooks her feet under a lower one.  "Both of you disarm. Now."
Dean tries and fails to remember if the trainees usually do that; Amanda and Mark sure as hell didn't this morning.  Seeing Mark's already in progress, he goes with it, removing all his weapons one by one and setting them by the fence to Amanda's right before returning to his spot a few feet away and facing Mark.
"Round one, five minutes, initial drill," Amanda says, then looks at Dean with a faint smirk.  "You remember it, right?  Since you apparently designed it?"
He watched the trainees; that counts.  "Got it.  Anything else?"
"I call the time, you both stop.  Any questions?"
Dean shakes his head; this is a shitty idea.  "Nope."
"Warm him up," Amanda tells Mark.  "Five minutes, listen for my calls, and time starts--now."
Dean woke up a few minutes after dawn to an empty bed; Cas's side was already cold.  He wasn't surprised; actually, he wasn't much of anything, the numbness from the night before following him into the early morning gloom.
Drills are drills; formal as a dance, the feint and counter, thrust and parry (or maybe that's swords), speed is variable, starting at half before moving to three-quarters, the last minute at full.  Not a lot of contact, but that's the point; this is where the moves are learned and reflexes begin to be trained until they move into body memory.  Only a complete fuckup couldn't get through it with breath to spare.
"Time," Amanda says, and Mark backs off while Dean gulps desperately needed air, just managing not to bend over and gasp just how fucking out of shape he is. 
He hasn't been on the training field: too sick, still recovering, doesn't know what he's doing, can't let anyone else know that, the list goes on and on and on.  Whatever happened at the daycare (what happened at the daycare?), it seemed to be situation-only: adrenaline, desperation, dying kids, pick one or pick them all.  It's not here now, anyway; Mark doesn't even look flushed while Dean's pretty sure he's sweated out a day's worth of water already.
As much as anything, this proves he's not just out of shape; he's never been in shape, not like this, not in his entire life.  Which may prove Sam right about the goddamn early morning runs: anywhere they stayed overnight got a pre-dawn jog, distance measured against how long it would take Dean to wake up, and Dean didn't do that until he had to.
Because he's not a morning person.  As everyone knows but him.
"Ready," Dean says when he's relatively sure he's got enough breath to sound--well, not as shitty as he feels.  Mark looks at Amanda, shifting restlessly, and Goddammit.  "Well?"
"Round two, seven minutes," Amanda says easily, resting her elbows on her knees.  "Second drill, which--"
"I know," Dean grates out.  Second verse, a more elaborate version of the first: two minutes at half, two at three-quarters, three at full, though the instructor can switch it up to test how quickly the students react.  This one is after you know the moves and are developing the reflexes; the amount of contact depends on how much you've absorbed, and in his case, it's gonna be a lot of contact (not so much for Mark).  In other words, this is gonna hurt.  Good.
"Good," Amanda says.  "Mark, you're getting sloppy in the transitions, those should be automatic by now; Dean…" She cocks her head, mouth twitching.  "He's got the reach on you; use it."
Use it: good to know (what the hell does that mean?  How?).  "Right."
"Seven minutes, listen for my calls," Amanda says, looking between them. "Time starts--now."
He found coffee in the coffeemaker, still warm, cups and plates discarded hastily in the sink; he washed them mindlessly (he could be a good guest, he knew how).  The detritus of breakfast was already put away, but someone left a separate plate on the stove (pancakes and chorizo, fresh tortillas and home-canned fruit: much better than the shit they got from the military), and he ate his solitary breakfast standing up at the counter, finishing everything even though hunger wasn't even a memory, every bite forced past a throat that wanted to close and settling in his stomach like lead.
Cas said: When will I be, Dean? 
When will he be done with this life he doesn't want, with the Dean Winchesters that make him keep living it, the sense of duty that won't let him stop no matter how much he wants to.  When, he asks, like anyone born doesn't sometimes wonder the exact same fucking thing.  You think you're special, Cas?  You're not.
--what is that?
"Time," he hears Amanda say over the sound of his own gasps for breath, cold air burning his lungs.  "Walk it off, five minutes."
Dean's bent over this time, feeling the ache of overused muscles pretty much everywhere, even places he didn't think muscles existed.  He manages to straighten, turning to walk circles as he surreptitiously searches the misty field, wondering when the trainees are supposed to show up and hoping to God it's not anytime soon.  Semi-private humiliation is one thing, but he can live without half of goddamn Ichabod seeing him about to fall over and die from goddamn drills.
Two loose circles and the burn in his lungs diminishes and thought returns, enough at least to take inventory on what he's got to work with for round three, which sure, he hasn't ever actually seen, but that's not actually going to stop him from faking it.  Mark pulled every punch, which is as much a sign of his skill as anything else, and Dean's failing not to resent the necessity, like he really needs a black eye and a few cracked ribs.  Reaching up, he rubs his aching chest, remembering two cardiac arrests and the damage that doesn't exist.  Miracle is so clichéd (as Vera observed) but he'd love to know another word that applies.  Curse, how does that sound?  This is living, Cas; it's accepting what you got and learning to live with it.
Stretching his arms--and ignoring the sharp stab of pain shooting up his forearm to his elbow--he circles back to see Amanda watching him thoughtfully and braces himself to hear her call it a day.  Trainees coming, not much daylight, wash her hair, feed the cat, he looks like he's gonna collapse--
"Fifteen minutes." 
Mark stares at her.  "You're kidding, right?"
"Let's take this up a notch," she continues.  "The rules are, there are no rules--"
"This isn't Grease," Mark protests.
"And I'm not banging the fuck out of leather-pants-Sandy over the hood of the nearest car," Amanda retorts.  "And your nose isn't bleeding.  One of these three things could happen in the next five minutes, though: ask me which."
Mark shuts his mouth.
"God says, round three, fifteen minutes." Amanda's eyes narrow until Mark grudgingly nods. "Anything goes.  I won't call until time's up, someone gives, or you're about to die, and no promises on the last.  Ready?"
He really, really, really should say 'No' or even (and more accurately), 'Fuck, no', but the words are still floating in his head as he faces Mark, who may not be better than Amanda but is plenty and to spare better than him.  
"Mark," Amanda says, getting his attention.  "Keep pulling your punches like that when he provokes you and I'll put you back in training.  Dean--get better at provoking him, would you?  I'm getting a little bored watching the kids play, you know?"
It's not even a good insult, but then again, he's not a very good fighter.  Despite that, he straightens, tamping down the growing anger--it won't help, that much, he knows--and concentrates on his opponent.  Mark's stronger, faster, younger, has the height and reach, and outweighs him by more than he ever wants to know for sure. He was trained by Cas, works out with Amanda for fun, and spent almost three years fighting in the infected zone at the end of the world.  Dean'd say he was outclassed as hell, but first, he'd have to qualify for an actual class.
Kids: no. Playing: yeah, he is--he's playing at being their leader and playing at being a hunter and playing that he knows what he's doing and playing at being Dean fucking Winchester, because the only thing they share is a goddamn name, and that name's the only reason Cas stuck around even this long.  How he forgot that he doesn't know, but it's about time he started to remember.
Dean jerks around.  "Did you hear that?"
"What?" Tucking her hands in her coat pockets, she raises an eyebrow. "That I'm bored?" 
Annoyed, he strips off his flannel shirt and wipes his face before dropping it on top of his discarded sweater. The thermal is already soaked with sweat and so is his t-shirt; he's got to wonder about a winter that's boasting an eighties and rising dawn temperature, but it's the Apocalypse, and just like this fight, there are no rules.  Shoving up the too-long sleeves--doomed to slide right back down and distract him at the worst possible moment, he knows it already--he turns to face a very unhappy looking Mark.  
"Ready."
"Time starts--" Amanda pauses for a pregnant moment, "--now."
Mark's totally pulling his punches; that's why Dean's left cheekbone isn't broken, but it's gonna be one hell of a bruise.
Things he has to do today (post getting his ass beat down): find out how the experiment went (because his presence wasn't wanted), if it worked (or may work, fuck if he knows) find out what happens next.  If Cas wants to stay, how long, should Dean pack for him when he goes back today (pack for a few days, it's not a commitment; it's totally a fucking commitment, pack it all).  Go back to the empty cabin, do some first aid (he can take care of himself just fine), see if they have any food (probably not), order the mess to reinstate fucking salt, see what Joe's doing, look in on the new mess (the hole), hang some goddamn Christmas lights or send James to get some if they don't have any yet (this is James; they have Christmas lights by now), think about a present for Cas (because he's coming back, or maybe Dean can send it to Ichabod if Cas is still needed here; send it here, this is where he'll be), and maybe, just maybe, take a crowbar to his own laptop so he won't do it to Cas's (unless he wants that packed, too, because he may need time, because he's not coming back).
"Shit!" Dean hears over the ringing in his ears, and he blinks up uncertainly at a churning grey mass that he eventually works out is supposed to be the sky--are those snow clouds?  Fuck if he knows--and to see that, he's probably doing something a lot like lying down.  There's probably a reason for that.
Sitting up, he blinks at the sight of Mark, who looks horrified by the existence of violence or maybe just that his putative leader can't even manage to dodge a pulled punch.  There's a definite ache at the base of his spine that warns him he's got maybe no more of those before it takes off, and he'll need a hot water bottle or maybe someone else entirely to drive.  Leah might be available, if Cas isn't coming back, because even if the experiment worked, he's not coming back.
He's not coming back.
Stripping off the thermal, he wipes the sweat from his eyes and tosses it toward the fence. The back of his head is throbbing and his right shoulder checks in to inform him it's not dislocated but kind of wants to be.  Standing up, the world twists nauseatingly, stomach heaving in sympathy, but a couple of hard swallows helps with that, though it's longer until he can see Mark in singular.
"Well?" he demands when Mark doesn't move, hideously aware of what they can see.  Stripped down to too-big jeans and a sweat-soaked t-shirt, there's no way to hide the sickly pallor or rail-thin body, a guy who survived a fever that should have killed him but came back wrong.  What a joke: the guy who came back from Kansas City was wrong already, the ugly, knotted scar tissue winding up his arm visible proof the way the bandage above his wrist hides it from sight.  They're both looking right at him and don't see a goddamn thing.  That's life.
Cas said: When will I be, Dean? 
Even if Cas comes back to Chitaqua, he won't be coming back for him.  He's not the right one.
"Ready," he says.
Cas, Castiel, soldier of Chitaqua and angel of the Lord, you told me we could win, that it was worth fighting for, that I was good enough to do it; it was a lie. You want out, fine, don't let the door hit your ass, and by the way fuck you for making me believe a single word you said.
Amen.
He was wrong.  About a lot of things, come to think (everything, now that you mention it), but also his back.
He gets two more shitty landings--one on a right knee that will never forgive him, one flat on his ass--before the shock of pain arrowing up his spine to his neck keeps him still, laid out on the ground under the clearest blue sky he's ever seen, dotted with roving clouds like sheep that need some serious shearing.  It takes him two tries to even care enough to decide if he wants to sit up, because lying here brings a lot of shit into surprising focus, or maybe that's just the concussion talking. What he's doing is stupid, by the way, he gets that, but aching muscles and shaking limbs aren't doing shit to make him stop thinking, and lying here isn't getting him any closer to his goddamn goal.
Sitting up, the world dances briefly, Mark going in and out of focus like motel cable only inches from the leading edge of white foam as the tide pulls back and leaving a wet line in the sand.
"Dean--"
"'M fine," he grunts, pushing a hand into the cold ground and dragging himself upright, the training field tilting sideways before it rights itself with an almost physical jolt.  Shaking his head, wet hair clinging to his forehead, he focuses on Mark again, clenching his right hand to hide (from who, no idea) how badly it's shaking, index finger throbbing in time with the beat of his heart.  
Mark tries, gotta give him credit, but his opponent isn't helping him at all, and that's why Dean's throwing up breakfast and the two meals prior after a punch to the gut that he walked right into when failing to dodge.  Spitting out the taste of bile, he faces Mark again, who doesn't hide how badly he wants to be anywhere but here, and doesn't look at Amanda, who's probably wondering how the hell this guy can possibly claim to be a hunter, much less anyone's leader. He's sweated out anger and frustration and grief and endless disappointment--in himself, in his life, in how he managed to fuck up again and still can't even tell how--between every panted breath, but it doesn't help, never does.  
That's life, welcome to it: misery, suffering, privation, disappointment, rocks fall and everyone dies, and you keep on keeping on until you're dead, too (and maybe not even then), happy now?  That's all there is, now you know: any questions?  What makes it worth it; you fucking tell me, I've been wondering about that myself.  What gets you up every goddamn the morning to keep living it?  It sure as fuck can't be worth this.  Nothing is worth this.
This time, Mark doesn't bother hesitating or asking if he's okay, possibly because they've entered the 'putting everyone out of their misery' portion of the day.  Dean keeps his feet through a duck and dodge despite his body's best effort to give up and fall, but he's not fast enough to miss the second of the one-two punch that's followed with a kick to the meat of his thigh that sends him to his knees.
Gasping, Dean digs his fingers into the hard-packed dirt, warm sand dusting over the backs of his hands, barely avoiding going face-first into the ground and getting a bloody nose to add to his collection.  Spitting out a mouthful of blood, his stomach too empty for anything but dry-heaving and humiliation, he listens to the litany on repeat in his head; he was sick, he's still recovering, he's out of shape, out of practice, never even been in practice, too weak, too slow, not the right Dean Winchester, and he can't do this and he can't fucking believe he ever thought he could.
Stand up.
He tries to breathe, lungs packed solid with air like cemetery dirt.  I can't.
"…what the fuck, Amanda?"

Stand up.

Shut the fuck up. You never told me one fucking thing that's true.

Stand up.

"…can't keep this up…."
I can't.

All you have to do is remember--

"…and fucking call it!" Mark shouts.  "He's can't do it!" 

--how to stand up.

Pushing against the ground, Dean staggers to his feet, and it may hurt like hell, but he'll take it, he'll take all of it, because fuck if he'll ever get on his knees again.  
"Ready," he says hoarsely, blinking to clear his vision and focusing on Mark; he's not done yet.
Mark looks at Amanda desperately, opening his mouth to explain how Dean can't keep up, is too slow, too weak, too out of shape, the wrong one, can't get it right and never has.  Pick one pick them all, they're all true.  That doesn't mean he's ever gonna stop trying.
The slow-motion turn of his head is barely completed when Dean takes two steps and punches him hard enough to feel the impact up to his shoulder.  Almost shocked, he jerks clumsily out of the way of Mark's flailing arm and stumbles, almost falling, but his feet nail shaking legs to the earth, and he doesn't eat dirt, not this time.  That's life, too.
Eyes burning from the salt-heavy air, he looks up to see Amanda's slow, satisfied smile.  "There we go."
Dean slowly straightens and shakes out his right hand, knuckles raw and threaded with fresh blood that's echoed on Mark's split lip.
"Welcome back, Dean,"  Amanda adds. Mark wipes his mouth, watching him with newfound wariness that has nothing to do with how badly Dean's gonna lose.  "Seven minutes left. You want it, take it."
Mark hesitates, waiting for what feels like years, plenty of time to think, and Dean uses it. His mind runs everything he's learned about Mark so far as a fighter.  He doesn't have a lot of weaknesses and he compensates for them all--that's Cas in him, the guy who learned the hard way about how to work with what you've got and pounded that into every student he ever taught--but there's a reason that Amanda's the instructor and he just assists.  Weight, height, reach, strength, speed, training, and he fucking belongs: Mark's almost got it all, no lie, Dean's envious as fuck, but it's still only almost.
Mark telegraphs his next move like a shout, and Dean doesn't move this time, watching for the hitch, the reluctance to commit to beating the shit out of his leader and the certainty that it would be easy to do just that. At the last minute, Dean ducks to the side, kicking the back of his calf mid-lunge and watching in interest as Mark's own momentum takes him down. He's too tired--and honestly, too fucking slow--to even try to pin him now, instead dodging back a few steps as Mark rolls himself to his feet, startled expression just barely hidden as he faces Dean again.
Sure, Dean can't win this, but he hasn't lost until he's dead.
"Got your attention now?" Dean asks, grinning at him.  "Let's go."
He's listened a lot the last couple of days, but every time he tried to talk, it was like he never said a word.  It probably didn't help that they haven't been having the same conversation even once--that much, Dean figured out--but not early enough, and there's a reason for that.  The Croat bite, what they found in the church, what they learned from Alison and Teresa, two separate arguments with Cas: it was almost a relief to have something to deal with, anything at all, because otherwise, he'd have to start thinking of what happened six days ago in Ichabod and what it meant.
Ichabod was attacked by a small army of Croats and the problem isn't that they won, but why.  They didn't win because Chitaqua was here, thought that helped; they won because they already knew how to deal with it.  They had practice doing it, two years worth in a world where this wasn't a shitty apocalypse novel, in an area of the country written off where it's not just a potential danger, but a fact of life.  
He knew that--he lives in fucking Chitaqua, he's seen Wichita and Kansas City and Topeka, he's read the reports, heard the history in events and numbers, understood the scope--but Ichabod was the first time that he had to live it.  It's all he can do to pretend that nothing's changed when something has, distract himself with anything and everything he can find when the alternative is wondering not what he can do, but if he actually wants to.
It's not about whether they can win or lose; first, they have to get to the point where the question isn't academic, and that's where Dean's mind grinds to a halt.  This won't be about finding the right book, the right weapon, being at the right place at the right time, a single fight that will decide the fate of the world.  He's not being asked to give his life, but to make this his life, and that doesn't include the option of dying before he's done if he can help it.
It's weird; for days, he's been terrified to even think it, and fuck, was that a waste of time and stress.  No one says no, not if they're worthy of the question. Of course he'll do it.
Wiping the sweat from his eyes, Dean almost stumbles as the ground shifts beneath his feet, sand dusting across his boots, and that's not helping him keep his balance here.  Half the field is draped in a warm, salt-thick mist, and he's pretty sure he can hear the--
Crap.
Jerking out of Mark's (honestly, kind of terrible) lunge, he twists around desperately to miss the kick and stumbles half a dozen steps, raw pain shooting up his hamstring to nestle deep and throbbing in his left thigh.  
He's starting to get what Amanda meant when she warned Mark about pulling his punches; it wasn't about punching at all.  Mark could have ended this the first minute if he wanted this to be over fast--if the goal was for Dean to finish the round alive and pride (mostly) intact, he could have let Dean wear himself out while playing a defensive game; that he chose offense assuming that he could mitigate the risk with half-hearted follow-through says a lot, including the reason Mark's always gonna be almost.  He's pissed he has to do this at all, and while he knows how to follow orders to the letter, the spirit is spite, and making sure Dean knows with every pulled punch just how outclassed he is and why he should just give up.
Dean doesn't blame him for his feelings, but what he does with them is a whole other fucking story.  If he can't control them in a goddamn sparring match with his own leader still recovering from a near-fatal fever, he can't ever be entirely trusted to do it with a student his job is to teach.  
Even when there aren't rules, there's a pattern to any fight created by the participants themselves. Up until now, Dean let Mark decide what that was, but that like a lot of things, that's gonna change; he just needs a little more time to figure out how to do it.  Until then, he concentrates on defense, buying himself breathing room by retreating when he can to increase the space between them that Mark has to cross to get to him, counting on the fact that Mark isn't even pretending he needs to worry about defending himself.
Dean kind of gets why.  He can't quite make a fist anymore with his right; even trying makes it shake so badly he can't even close his hand, and nothing--and he does mean nothing--doesn't hurt like hell.  Stretching it out, he checks his throbbing finger and blinks; stretched across the tip is a thin, mostly-healed line following the curve of the skin.  Running his right thumb over it, though, he can't feel the scab at all, just rough, callused flesh and a burst of heat like he touched a lit match; so that's what's going on.
Blinking the sand from his eyes, he ignores the waves lipping along the vague impression of a shore just short of his boots.  A quick inventory of his injuries is aborted before it starts; nothing more depressing than realizing you shouldn't even be standing, much less fighting.  Today's to-do list: drive back to Chitaqua (fuck it, he doesn't need a babysitter), steal some painkillers, sleep for a day, and if anyone wants their shit, feel free to come by and watch him set it all on fire in the front yard; he'll barbecue dinner over the flames.  
Cas of Chitaqua, you fucking dick, hope you backed up recently, because 'thing I covered in salt and set on fire in the front yard' is gonna be right on top, covered in salt and on fire.  Amen.
Loud enough to shake the world, he can feel it reverberating in his bones like a husky bark of startled laughter, and despite himself, he finds himself grinning; that's life, too, and it's not too bad when you get used to it.  Now give me a minute, I gotta think.
Blocking Mark's next punch, Dean surreptitiously glances around and nods to himself, finger throbbing almost frantically; time to wrap this up.  Straightening, he ignores the audible pop from his back; that's not good, but he'll care about it maybe never. 
"Hey," he starts. "I gotta--" 
"Two minutes," Amanda interrupts, crossing her legs and killing Mark's dawning hope before it starts, but the flash of resentment lasts longer. Sure, he wants this over, but Mark is still pissed.  "Or you give?"
Dean just barely misses Mark's sloppy punch, ducking under his arm and adding a kick to his knee to teach him to respect people having conversations and ignoring his grunt as he hits the ground ass-first as well as his surprise. For fuck's sake, he's got shit to do.  "Amanda, he's--"
"One fifty or someone gives," she says cheerfully as Mark pivots around with a badly-hidden wince.  Black eye, split lip, abraded knuckles, bruises everywhere, and probably something sprained: maybe they can share a room in the infirmary later.  "You done?"
He shuts his mouth before he can tell her what god can do with round three, licking the blood from his lips.  "No."
Dean catalogues what he's got to work with: Mark, heels only inches from the incoming tide while Dean's back is to the fence; Amanda to his left and to his right…yeah.  He can work with this.  Weight, height, reach, strength, speed, training, and he fucking belongs: Mark's almost got it all, but only almost, and that's not enough, not today.
"Come and get me," Dean tells him with a smile, and feints right, leaving his left open--the only hand that still works, how'd Mark forget that?--and turns on the ball of his foot at the last minute to face Mark, catching Mark's fist but not slowing down its momentum, and pivoting sideways, Dean lets weight and reach do the work for him.  Unable to slow down, Mark stumbles hard and lands in an awkward heap with a gasp a foot away from the fence: perfect.
A single step and Dean kicks his knife from the pile of weapons and towards Mark, scooping it up with his left and straddling Mark's body just as he heaves himself onto his back, still out of breath and nose starting to look a little swollen.  Pulling Mark's boot knife (he forgot that, too: big mistake), Dean lands on abdomen with his full weight, missing dangerous broken rib territory and knocking the air right back out of him.  Mark sucks in a shocked breath, prepping to throw him, but Dean's got a knife at his throat and one at his belly and he's not going anywhere.
The rules are, there are no rules, and forgetting that was Mark's biggest mistake.  From the corner of his eye, he sees Amanda's off the fence, but right now, his attention's on Mark.
"Give," he says, balancing on the balls of his feet, knees in play on the off-chance Mark's got a surprise left (he doesn't).  Any way Mark moves, an artery's gonna suffer, or if he's unlucky, both (Dean's thinking both; there's not a lot of options for movement here that are either/or).
Mark goes still, his uninjured eye widening in shock.
"Well?" 
Swallowing, Mark nods, mouth opening for a rusty "Yeah," and Dean grins down at him; now that that's out of the way, he's got shit to do.  Getting to his feet, he offers Mark back his boot knife hilt-first before turning to see the wave just breaking along the sandy shore; north or south, which way to go? He'll figure it out when he gets there.
Sliding his knife across the tip of his throbbing finger over the ghost of the cut made that day when Cas showed him the cabin's wards, Dean watches the water splash across the sand.  "Freely given, just like last time. Yes."
The well of blood isn't anything to write home about, but the beach ripples across the training field, sunlight dancing over glittering sand and an endlessly blue ocean.  You could live a life there in a single day.  And he did.  
"Dean--" Amanda starts, but Dean shakes his head as the next wave stops only inches from his boots.  "Dean, what are you doing?"
"He's calling me," he answers impatiently, following the white-foam edge south as the sound of breakers pounding the shore grows steadily louder and the dirt gives way for golden-white sand, sun-hot and shifting beneath his bare feet and between his toes.  "What do you think I'm doing? I'm answering."
"Dean--!" vanishes beneath the crash of waves, and Dean emerges into a warm summer day on the Atlantic seaboard.  He takes in the view for a moment before crouching to roll up his jeans.
Now he's just got to find him.
That's actually the easy part.
The water teases the shoreline, waves rushing eagerly forward before shying back just short of his bare feet and following him the length of the pristine beach, summer heat offset by the sticky, salt-thick breeze.  Tipping his head back, Dean takes in the perfect sky above him for a moment, rich blue like something out of a movie or a painting, clouds chasing each other toward the distant horizon beneath the indulgent gaze of the sun, yellow-gold and blinding.  It's beautiful, as perfect a moment in time as any in his life.
Dusk is when Dad came for them, but he and Sam were here at dawn; the hours between were long enough to live a life they'd never imagined, as different from a lifetime of rest stops and motels as a motel pool was from the ocean.
He never believed in normal, but he does in living the life you got the best you can; it's not easy, but it doesn't have to be this fucking hard.  A spanking in the stuffy, run-down room and a musty, sagging mattress to sleep on that night didn't change a thing; it was worth the sunbaked hours with Sam, playing hide and seek among the rocks and keep-away from each incoming wave, swimming beneath the surface and watching the wavering sky with salt-burned eyes, laughing until their stomachs ached before collapsing in golden-white sand, exhausted and wet and as happy as they'd ever been.
…and right, building a sandcastle, can't forget that; an example of under-ten's excellent grasp of the value of defense and their lack of understanding of the principles of sandcastle engineering, but damned if they didn't try.
He circles the high outer walls of golden-brown sand with two Sam-created gates decorated with seashells clinging for dear life surrounding a wide, open space big enough for two young boys to climb inside and work on a mostly-finished castle at its center, half-crumbling turrets fighting physics and a shitty sand-to-water ratio to stay upright and succeed against all the laws of God and man. Stepping inside--it's smaller when you're six plus feet, that's so weird--he watches the water sliding almost shyly around the circle of defensive wall before returning to the ocean and leaving a deepening gully of water behind.
"Moat," he realizes, grinning.  "Good idea."  He wishes Sam was here and they could start work on a drawbridge for it. He's here, though, and driftwood would work; he wonders if there's any around.
When he glances up, he sees a slim figure wandering down the coastline, skirts twisting around her legs, and even from here, he can tell she's annoyed as hell and isn't taking it anymore.  Because of course she's not; she's never been anything else.
"What the hell," he shouts over the pound of the surf, unable to stop the grin, "are you doing here?"
The figure stops short. "What do you think?" she yells back, waving as she jogs toward him, the water shying at each narrow foot pounding its shape into the wet sand.  Stepping carefully over the walls, he watches in bemusement as the waves withdraw more with each step toward the waterline until it hovers warily just beyond their feet.
"He's doing it to me, too," she snorts, pushing back loose hair from a flushed face before looking around them in wonder. Spying the sandcastle, she bursts into laughter.  "Much better than me and Neer's at Valente, give you that one."
He shrugs, though yeah, it's a goddamn amazing sandcastle.  "So how's it going?"
She gives him a mischievous look before abruptly darting toward the water.  Obviously a surprise: the water rears back in something not unlike a reverse wave, opening up a wide, wet sand circle around her just before her toes make contact.  Spinning around to face him, she throws out both arms in hilarious despair, and he's still choking on sandy laughter as he joins her.
"Like that," she says, shaking her head.  "The infinite ocean doesn't want to play, and you wouldn't believe how long it took him to sit still long enough to ground and center or whatever she calls it."
"About the same amount of time it took you?" he answers mockingly, looping an arm through hers as they start back to the natural boundary of the tide.  
"Ha, I learned my lesson," she retorts, tilting her chin up.  
"Sleeping on the couch?"
"Sex," she admits as he adjusts his stride to hers.  "For my fiancée is both beautiful and very smart." 
He tries to calculate how much time they've spent on this experiment; it would help if maybe they could actually start.  "How long has it been?"
"Half a second, maybe: there's no time here, though."  She licks her lips, looking up at him uncertainly. "He thinks he'll kill me," she says in a rush, sounding defeated.  "The experiment worked; there's enough time, more than enough.  So we drew the circle, got the kids--and he won't do it."
Letting go of her arm, he looks at the ocean spread out, blue-green waves capped in snow-white breakers like foam, water lapping warily at the sand just short of their feet.  "He's afraid."
"That much," she says dryly, "I figured out on my own."
Dropping into a crouch, he swallows.  What they are, what they do: it's a loner's game, but the thing is, he never really believed it.  Dad wasn't the one that made him, that decided the course of the life he'd live; Sam did that, by example when he could, by brute force shouting when he needed to, by walking away and being willing to come back every goddamn time when all else failed.  He taught Dean that lesson over and over again, as much in his leaving as in his return, and if it took a while for Dean to learn it (and a couple of repetitions, fine), he did learn.  He can teach Cas that, too; if it takes a few times to get it to sink in, fine; if it takes a thousand times to get it, he's got the time; if it takes forever, he'll do it, no sweat; Cas is worth it.  You're worth it.  It doesn't have to be this hard.
"It can be distracting," Dean murmurs.  An infinite mind filled to the brim with all things that are, were, and will be, but now is always gonna be a surprise, and that's as terrifying as it is freeing.  That's life: full of surprises right and left, and some suck balls, but some don't.  "Just need to focus, right?"  
Reaching out carefully, he touches the tiny swirl of water.

He was up all night watching Dean's troubled, restless sleep, fighting exhaustion for a contentment in his simple presence that easily overshadowed what would happen come morning.  He forgot that, or didn't want to imagine its lack; he never would have done it otherwise.  It wasn't worth it after all--

Dean closes his eyes; he doesn't need to know this.

--he would have failed eventually, he knows that, but he could have continued to try; the space between now and then was vast, seconds or forever, and he could have had Dean for all of it.

Dean opens his eyes and thinks: You gotta be fucking with me.  A fight isn't a goddamn tragedy for the ages, how many times do we need to go over this?
"Dean?" drifts from behind him, but he raises a hand, looking up at the breadth of the ocean stretching out forever before them. In the distance, it meets the sky in a darkening line, the impression of something massive held in severe check: a swirl of gale force winds and power, destruction and brutal violence, the merciless purity of justice, chaos incarnate unleashed on earth. 
It's bullshit: the only leash Cas needs is himself.  That's life.
"Just need a minute to slow down and breathe, right?" he says softly, straightening as he watches the distant mass darken, flickers of brightness like lightening in shifting winds.  "Figure out you can do this, no sweat. You just need your one thing."
Dean steps into warm water up to his ankles.  "That's me."
He's not sure how long he walks, but knee-high is as far as he can get.  The horizon gets darker but never any closer, and when he turns around, the shore's vanished into an endless stretch of infinite blue.
Don't be afraid, angels would say to the humans they met; it makes sense.  The unknown is fucking terrifying, and generally, meetings like that don't end well.  Get past the fear of immediate annihilation, though, and things even out.  Eventually, anyway.
Though honestly, Dean's not sure that applies when the fear in question is of yourself; it's not like he's earned any gold stars there.  So that's gonna take some time, but later; they got shit to do now.
"Don't be afraid," Dean says, as pointlessly as an angel on earth ever did, and with about the same result; have you lost your mind? comes through loud and clear, thanks.  
Dean rubs his first finger over the line of newly opened scar; given freely, it has a power that unwilling can't hope to match.  He can actually see Cas sitting on the arm of the couch in the cabin that day, looking at him incredulously; Do you usually give the bodily fluid with the greatest potential for mystical abuse to anyone who asks for it?
"No, I don't," Dean retorts, glaring at the darkening horizon.  "Just you.  If you don't believe in yourself, believe me, and I can believe enough for us both.  You with me?"
He doesn't expect an answer, but Alison nearly colliding with him is probably just that.  "Whoa," she says, grabbing his shoulder and looking around incredulously.  "So he's really literal."
"You have no idea."  Steadying her, he watches the darkness start to grow, swallowing up the sky and water before them in great gulps.  "Now that's what I'm talking about.  Come on, it's gonna be fine.  You can do this."
When he glances at Alison, he sees the wide grin on her face that he can feel on his own as the wind picks up, swirling sand and salt and righteous frustration because there may not be an infinite number of ways Dean can frustrate him, he has yet to identify the actual number.  Always something new: that's life, Cas, and welcome to it.
"You ready?" Dean breathes, water climbing up to his hips and not stopping there as the waves grow, a surfer's dream in blue-green masses flickering with light so bright it could illuminate the whole goddamn world.  Who could be afraid of that?  He wouldn't even know where to start.
"Oh yeah."  She chokes out a laugh through a mouthful of water as she drops her sodden skirts, giving the forever storm a speculative look.  "Well?"
This would be that cliff Amanda was talking about, but there's nothing to be done but jump.  That's what cliffs are for.  "Race you?"
Two laughing, waterlogged steps, and Dean falls like a pebble into the limitless depths of an infinite ocean.
You with me, Cas?  Good.  Now get this shit done.
There, Alison breathes, and he sees it, too: each a suppurating sore, livid, putrid reds and yellows, dead white where it waits eagerly to claim the life of everyone who carries it, the design multiplies across each mind, each redundant memory hungry; that's its purpose, and it knows nothing else.  
Cas saw the problem immediately, and as horrific as it was, more terrifying by far was the possibility that while its creator might be dead, Hell could preserve such a mind that could not just conceive of this, but bring it into existence.  Once thought, it cannot be unthought; once done, it will be done again, and the most that can be hoped for is a delay, the grace of time for it to be learned and countered.  Or the world ends before it becomes a problem, of course.
That's his Fallen angel: that optimism.
There were fifteen living children before him, a goddess intent on killing them, and a former angel who didn't need Grace to be dangerous but did need power to make sure they were safe.  
Five minute rule: it works.  He's had time since then, though, lived a mortal life that included meeting a witch who understood the flexibility of rules as well as he did and how never to break them even when that's exactly what you intend to do.  We can't erase it, can't hide it, can barely see it, but it was made, and that means it can be unmade.  They simply needed to be creative in the how.
In the courtyard, Teresa's bleeding hand has already crossed the outer edge, cutting through each precisely chalked line from perimeter to inner circle, and Cas echoes it across every fixed memory at once, each stroke cutting the bindings as cleanly as a cauterized wound.  It's seconds, hours, forever; the church walls and floor rising up around them as the original flares to shrieking, bleeding life before it collapses into light, two and a half years of existence burned away in a breath.
All I needed, Alison breathes in satisfaction, and Dean sometimes seriously wonders about her.
Unmade, its power stripped and broken, it can be erased, and Cas does that next, precise as a stiletto, painstakingly erasing it from each individual engram without damage to the brain.  Watching, Dean gets why Cas said only an angel could do something like this.  Like resurrecting a human body from bone and dust, it wasn't just about knowing what you were doing; it was in that moment knowing nothing else at all.  Everything in Cas is dedicated to every detail down to the atom of their brains, but even without Grace, he couldn't make a mistake if he tried.
He also gets why Cas was worried; even seeing this much is giving him something not unlike a headache, and Alison's starting to waver.  Cas can't--literally--break his concentration and Teresa's just reached the inner circle: reaching over, Dean catches Alison's cold hand, unsubstantial as air and light but warming and solidifying in his grip and sending her his strength.  As much as she needs; he's got it and to spare.
She can't entirely understand what Cas is doing at first--too much information, on a guess--but slowly, that begins to change, and after a moment, Dean realizes what Cas is doing; he's teaching her how he does it, how an angel erases a memory without hurting the subject, adapting the knowledge to a human psychic's power and feeding her as much of the massive amount of information on the human brain needed for this that she can handle.
And that, as it turns out, is a lot; there aren't any limits on the human mind except the ones they make for themselves.
They both watch Cas slowly rebuild over the absence--that blank space thing, he's gonna guess--so they'll never sense what was taken; in a sense, it was never there at all.
Unexpectedly, Cas changes track, searching the minds of the children and pulling up the memories of the courtyard the day Ichabod was attacked.  Castiel examines the sequence from the children's first horrific memories--Dee saw a Croat rip out Bianca's throat with its teeth; Sissy splashed with blood as her teacher died protecting her; Alara seeing the demon staring out of the eyes of Grant; Darwin screaming as he was dragged outside--the shock, terror, pain, and horror saturating every moment until the circle was completed and the fixed memory took over their minds. 
Slowly, gently, he blurs them, dulls the details into incomprehensibility before easing them away from the soul-deep fear, making it more distant and carefully weakening each pathway to the memories so nothing will haunt their young lives, steal their sleep and invade their dreams.  Too many nights he's watched Dean twist and turn in their grip: as an angel, he didn't understand what it did to Dean to experience those nightmares even if he rarely remembered them upon waking, the scars it left in his mind; as a human, he could only watch, soothe him when he could, awaken him when all else failed; this time, he can do it as it should be done, give them the peace he'd do anything to give Dean, for even a single night's rest.
"Jesus, Cas," Dean breathes, hoping to God he doesn't sound like--whatever he sounds like right now.  Alison squeezes his hand--so he does, great--as she files away everything Cas does.  
In some ways, it's even harder than simply erasing memories, requiring care and precision and assuring that every redundant copy matches the changes to the first.  Dissonance is to be avoided if possible, minimized if not; the memory informs all human perception, and the mind must be able to trust itself.  A single missed redundant engram--a single mistake--could cause a chain reaction across the brain if it interprets the inconsistency as damage, and the potential for actual damage when it tries to repair it.
She won't be able to use--or even understand--most of what she's learning yet; too much information is being written as quickly as possible into her memory, and accessing it will be almost impossible without context.  Learning what to do with the knowledge is for later, when Cas will teach her the first simple lessons of not just reading the human mind but understanding it in all its layers, when the triggers Cas installed will call up what she needs to know as she progresses in skill.  She might not remember much of what she saw here, but she'll definitely have a headache when it's over; Cas suggests she find a dark room and take the highest safe dose of vicodin possible.
"Thanks," she mutters, but she's smiling when she says it.
One more thing: abruptly, Dean's aware of Amanda and Kamal. It wasn't planned for today so they weren't prepared or their consent asked for in advance, but the danger is too great even now to delay if possible.  He can sense their surprise, but there's no sense of withdrawal or fear, and Cas is probably the only person in the world who's surprised at their unquestioning "yes".  
This time, it's different; there's nothing to unmake, just erase, but the memory sequence has to be left intact in its entirety.  Isolating the design alone from the sequence and then each redundant copy, Cas blurs the details of the design itself past recall, making it impossible for them to remember it--or anyone else to see it--as more than a vaguely circular thing.   Teresa's mind is safe in the earth's protection, and therefore Alison's as well, but neither have any desire to keep it if they don't have to, so he does the same to theirs as well, verifying through Teresa's eyes the exact location of the design in the courtyard he'll need to erase himself before allowing Teresa to purify it and with her permission sets a very strong impulse in her not to look at it when she leaves the courtyard.
Alison will be unconscious, so there's no reason to do the same to her.
"If I hit my head when I fall…." she warns, and laughter ripples through them all, Dean's included.
It's a mistake.  Cas isn't concentrating on anything now, and infinity just remembered he has company (if he even knew, that part's kind of up in the air) and for how long.
Abruptly, Dean's got all of infinity staring right at him, and that is a fucking lot. The swirl of water becomes a maelstrom before it stills like they've just hit the eye of the storm, and the fear is unmistakable."Dean."
Infinity, Dean thinks uncomfortably, soaking wet, up to his knees in water, and peering up at a hurricane the size of a galaxy, may also be kind of pissed.
It happens fast: the impression of something vast (and it must be said, stupidly pissed, he's fine!) rises up around them, and he feels Alison's hand start to slip from his.  He tries to hold on, but his right still isn't working right (wait, what?) and he has only a moment of panic before he realizes what's going on.
"It's over!" Alison shouts from somewhere, maliciously cheerful.  "Sucks to be you real soon now."
"Fuck you."  Squeezing her hand one last time as she starts to slip away, he remembers something. "So by the way, when are you gonna tell me, anyway?"
The last thing he remembers is her laughter: I don't even know yet. When I do, I'll tell you. Promise.
The closest comparison Dean can come up with to this feeling is being kind of the opposite of stoned, except for the part where he kind of is: euphoria and kind of really wanting to stare into space and wanting to laugh like a lot except that staring into space thing kind of takes all his attention.  Awareness of things like motion and velocity come later, and even later than that, the sudden stop that almost throws him to the floorboard of what he's almost certain may be the jeep.
A little late as revelations go: he's being dragged out the door by someone in a shitty mood that may need a little relaxing through chemistry, stat.  Also, there's shouting, but it's not at him (he thinks) so whatever.
He's got to get a new word for shit like this, he thinks a little blearily, sitting up and realizing by the proliferation of walls that he's in a room and, hey, bed: context, back at Alison's, awesome.  Christ, though, his head: reaching up, he's distracted by a warm trickle against his upper lip, and swiping it away, looks blankly at the smear of fresh blood.  Suspicious, he fumbles for an ear and almost sighs at the liquid warmth: Cas is never gonna let him live this down. Whatever this is; he's almost got it.
Speaking of.  "What are you--lie down!"
"I'm fine," Dean starts--or thinks he does--but he's (gently) supine before he can work out whether there were actual words or just really adamant thoughts.  Licking his lips, he tries to decide if it's worth the inevitable fight if he tries to sit up or to just go with it; the mattress is unbelievable, the pillow is comfy, and he's still not quite feeling the ass-kicking Mark gave him on the training field.  "Bad idea," he mutters into the pillow, trying not to remember exactly how much pain he should be in after that; not like he won't be feeling it soon enough.  "Such a bad idea--"
"Now you think….hemorrhaging, brain damage, you lecture me about it all the time, so why would you…how did you even…." Cas's voice shatters as he hip checks Dean to sit down, callused hands framing his face, the better to reduce the distance his glare has to cross to get to Dean, on a guess.  Like distance affects that shit: he can feel one of those miles away and in his sleep, thanks.  "What happened?"
"I don't know," he mumbles defensively, trying to put the memories in some kind of order, though on a guess, he's going to regret getting the full picture the minute he has it.  "He kept pulling his punches. It pissed me off."
"What are you--" The cut-off is as ominous as a tornado siren before warm fingers slide to the developing bruise on his cheek, too light to make him wince but reminding him that when he feels that, Jesus, it's gonna hurt.  "Where did you get this?"
"Mark's fist."
Cas thumb brushes against the corner of his mouth, which makes him immediately aware it kind of hurts, too.  "And this?" 
"…the ground," Dean decides after a moment of thought.  "Or--"
"Mark's fist, I sense a theme."  
Vaguely, he remembers Mark chanting, "Cas is gonna kill us" the entire drive back to town, like if he said it enough, it might not come true, and Amanda's sincere promise that she'd kill him herself if he didn't shut up. 
"At least she'd make it fast," Cas says darkly.  Dean thought Mark was overreacting, but slitting his eyes open, he reconsiders the entire 'fighting Mark on the training field' thing as a reason for imminent homicide; Christ, his bruises have bruises.  Cas picks up his right hand, looking at the bloodied knuckles with an unreadable expression before his eyes dart to his left, like he's not sure what he's looking at but maybe someone should die for it.  "You were fighting on the training field--"
"Sparring," he corrects Cas, because sure, he's pissed at Mark, sure, but he doesn't really want him dead.  At least, he assumes a time will come that he won't.  He's optimistic like that.
The blue eyes meet his for a moment before, in a completely unwelcome turn of events, Cas says, "Sit up."
Uh, no. The lying down thing is really working for him, thanks.
"Don't argue with me, just--never mind." Dean's still marshaling his arguments when Cas eases him upright himself, and his clothes inexplicably vanish, reappearing on the floor in a filthy heap that suggests either a.) magic or b.) Cas (or both?).  "I locked the door," he says cryptically, and Dean winces at the fingers searching his back inch by inch, slowing on each tender still-forming bruise, before sliding up his neck.  "Three rounds--what was she thinking?"
On a guess, she was probably thinking how the hell he could be anyone's leader.
"Shut up," Cas breathes as he eases him back down to the bed and continues his intensive investigation of Dean's chest and ribs, dirt-caked jeans, socks, and boots mysteriously vanishing in the process.
Watching Cas, Dean fights down a sigh.  He'll be honest; that's not the expression that he ever wanted to see on Cas's face upon beholding his (mostly) naked self. It's not a surprise, no--he looks like shit from the fever, and further injuries don't improve the overall depressing picture---but still.
"Don't be ridiculous, you're without flaw," Cas mutters, blue eyes meeting his and unfocusing briefly before they abruptly narrow. "Give me a moment," he adds, standing up before Dean can do more than think he should stop him.  "I need to kill some people.  It won't take long, and I'll bring painkillers back with me."
"And water," Dean grunts in resignation--he's pretty sure they'll be okay--and with another grunt, curls up onto his side to wait. 
He doesn't bother moving even when the door opens and shuts again, letting Cas ease him upright against a magically-appearing mound of pillows to take blessed, blessed vicodin and a full glass of water.  Handing Cas the empty glass, he leans back, wondering depressingly just how much damage he did to himself today.
"Just bruising for the most part," Cas assures him, materializing a first aid kit from somewhere to place on the bedside table beside a bowl of water and stack of clean cloths. "Relax while I attend to this."
He has no problem with that, watching through half-closed eyes as Cas carefully wets one of the clothes and cleans the dirt and drying blood from face, hands, and arms before carefully following it with alcohol on the actual injuries--stings, but whatever--and a topical. Clean bandages follow, changing the one on his Croat-bite before tending to the abrasion on his wrist he didn't notice earlier, the heels and knuckles of both hands and pausing to frown at his cut finger in confusion before putting a bandaid on it and moving on.  
In retrospect, he's glad that Amanda didn't listen when he insisted he could drive back to Chitaqua now and take care of this when he got home, just give him a minute. While loading him into the back of the jeep because he was still really shaky on the walking thing.  And consciousness, for that matter. 
"You were going to…don't answer that," Cas says with a sigh as he adds a last bandaid to a cut on his forehead he didn't even know was there.  "Lean forward and I'll remove the pillows so you can lie down."
He likes that plan, especially when he's supine again and Cas draws the blankets over him against the chill of the room.  Even better, Cas doesn't wander off to kill anyone, reaching out to brush Dean's hair from his forehead, fingertips firm against his scalp.  It feels so good that Dean's eyes almost fall closed, and after a brief hesitation, Cas continues, stroking slow and gentle and utterly perfect.  More times than he can count Dean would fall asleep to that after the fever, comforted as much by the action as who was doing it.
"Sometimes, when you were feverish, I would--doing this would help you sleep," Cas says suddenly.  "I assumed by your lack of protest that you didn't mind."
You don't say; Cas picking up the obvious, news at one.  
Cas's mouth twitches.  "And apparently when you're injured as well.  Mark's lying down in Amanda's room; the adrenaline released due to his very justified fear of summary death can truly perform miracles, but all good things must end, and Amanda is seeing to him."
Christ, he hopes Mark's in as much pain as he is.
"More," Cas murmurs in satisfaction, working his fingers gently through the strands, patiently working out the tangles.  "Amanda is also telling him all about his new regime starting tomorrow every time he complains about how much everything hurts."
Slitting open his eyes is definitely worth the effort; Cas is grinning at him, blue eyes warm, and it feels like forever since he saw that.  Licking dry lips, he smiles back uncertainly, feeling the pull of something scabbing at the corner of his mouth.  "What?"
"I suppose I should have considered reminding them what happened to Vera when she forgot to disarm before coming into your presence when you were ill," Cas admits, tilting his head and looking really fucking amused by something.  "But some lessons must be learned by doing, and he won't make that mistake again."
Dean looks his inability to understand that, and also how much Cas shouldn't ever stop what he's doing; it's like magic.  Or the vicodin is kicking in, but he prefers the Cas-answer.
"You won," Cas adds.  "Mark's overconfidence was probably a factor; he should have identified you as a threat far more quickly.  But I suspect you were very motivated when you realized he didn't respect you as an opponent and felt he needed a lesson."
Yeah, what?  "I…." Hazily, he struggles to remember what happened before the entire dragging him to the jeep thing.  "Huh."
Cas's fingers trail down Dean's check briefly before pausing.  "Do you remember what happened after you received Mark's very enthusiastic submission?"
He doesn't even remember that, but he's going to if it kills him.
"Amanda said…." He hesitates long enough that Dean starts to worry that he fell asleep and Cas left, but when he opens his eyes again, Cas is reassuringly still sitting there, though the edge of the bed, he's learned, is not the ideal when it comes to keeping Cas in place.  "You told her you had something to do before promptly passing out, she wasn't clear."
Dean raises his eyebrows in eloquent 'that's not what Amanda said at all', but the way Cas looks away isn't what he was going for.
"You were answering me.  I called you."  Dean starts to ask what Cas is talking about when he adds in a different voice, "That's how it happened."
All at once, Dean's not tired at all; nothing good ever came of Cas sounding like that. Time to focus.
"I won't happen again," Cas continues dully, pulling away.  "I'll fix this when we return to Chitaqua."
Fix what?  Anytime now.
"I'll break the wards," Cas says tonelessly, but he's paying attention enough to notice Dean isn't keeping up.  "Once broken, I'll show you how to revoke your consent to my claim on you that was given de facto when you gave me your blood to use in them."
"The wards."  Think: the cabin wards, contamination, his blood, got it. "But--"
"I'll build them again without using your blood," Cas explains, like that's the important part (which yeah, it's important, but it's like, third right now).  "That should be enough to--assure this doesn't happen again."
What the hell happened?  "Cas--"
"In the courtyard, we were able to remove the design from the children's memories," Cas says in that same toneless voice.  "And it seems--at some point--I pulled you into what we were doing.  That you survived at all, much less with your mind intact…."
"Hey!" He's fine--other than having the shit beaten out of him, of course (but Mark feels much worse; he got his ass handed to him by the guy who could barely make it through the second drill).  "I'm okay.  What's the problem?"
"It shouldn't," Cas says flatly, "have happened at all."
He's about a second from shouting what the hell are you talking about when he thinks--just maybe…. "A beach."
"Gay Head Cliffs," Cas confirms, but he doesn't need it; all his best memories of childhood were the ones he made with Sam, and that was one of the best of them all.  Sam had never even had a home with a yard or a park to play in, much less an endless day to do nothing else, and Dean could barely remember the last time he played at all. 
Dad left two nights before, and by then, Dean knew how it worked; if he wasn't home at dawn, odds were he wasn't coming home today. (Nine years old was plenty young enough to still pretend he believed his only parent was immortal) and they had time and were gonna use it. 
He packed up two sandwiches--bread and mayo, they were out of anything that goes between those things--and headed out, hitching rides down State Road from Aquinnah to the Gay Head Lighthouse and walked from there.  He told himself then that he did it for Sam--an hour or two, just to get away from the smothering heat of those four walls and a tiny room with a broken AC--and it was, but it was for himself, too. 
(Nine years old was plenty young enough to pretend he didn't know better, too.) 
There's nothing he doesn't remember about that day--the heat of the sun, Sam's laughter, the endless hours he let himself forget to pretend he wasn't a kid--but he's never forgotten the moment they made the final rise and he saw the Atlantic Ocean for the first time in his life.
"When I took your blood for the wards that day, you didn't know what you were doing, and that I didn't either isn't an excuse.  It may not be formally binding for me to do that any longer--" Cas's expression undergoes a revolution there, a goddamn novel in progress, "--and when it was, the standard of disclosure wasn't what anyone sane would call high--but it doesn't matter." He closes his eyes for a second.  "You didn't know what would happen, and that's reason enough for this to be broken."
Okay, now he's got it.  "It didn't hurt me, though. So why--"
"If I could that to you, what else could I make you do?"
"You wouldn't hurt me," Dean says, wondering why he has to actually say that; water is wet, sky is--well, grey right now, maybe snow's coming?--and Cas would never hurt him.
"You don't know--"
"Yeah," he interrupts.  "I do."
Cas looks away.  "You don't understand how dangerous it is, to give someone that kind of power over you, even with the best of intentions."
Dean takes a deep breath, searching frantically for a workable argument here.
"There isn't one," Cas replies, meeting his eyes, and Dean realizes he didn't say anything.  And that may not be the first time that happened.  "It's not.  It started when we were done in the courtyard and you woke up on the training field."
Pie, he thinks very, very deliberately.  He could really use some pie right now, like the one he had at that diner in Norfolk. It was--
"Cherry," Cas says immediately, then a startled expression crosses his face.  "One scoop of vanilla ice cream, whipped cream on top: the flavor combination is sublime."
Holy shit.  "You can read the flavor of the pie?"
"Of course, the memory is very vivid--" Cas cuts himself off, but Dean knows that look; he's felt it on his own face when he walks into a diner and sees the glass display case of pie on the counter.
He wonders how long this will last--
"I don't know, which illustrates the problem."
--because he's got a lot of food-related memories and Cas's food aversion could use some work.
"You're joking."  He's not. "Dean, do you understand how serious this is?  Whether or not I like food is immaterial!"
It's really not, but they'll come back to that; he needs to focus. When he can fucking think, Jesus. There's something he's missing, something really obvious. It's like the last two fights they had but worse, because this time, now, he can fix it.  When he works out what the fuck the problem is, of course.
"I apologize," Cas says in a different voice.  "You need to rest. This can wait."
Jesus, he wishes that were true.
"And I am tired as well," he adds, darting an uncertain glance at Dean as if he just admitted something dangerous and secret and not the pretty goddamn obvious.
Actually, that works for him: not like he's got any better ideas that don't end in an argument he's not gonna win right now.  "Lie down," he says invitingly, patting the middle of the bed.  Always a good way to get Cas to stay in place; tempt him to the comfort of the middle of the bed.  It's not like he misses being bedridden and feverish, but he misses those times when he had Cas to himself, if only for a few hours, no camp to worry about, no goddamn Croats in the recent past, no fucking laptop.  And…Cas can read his mind right now.
"You're right; I should rest if we wish to return to Chitaqua this afternoon," Cas says abruptly, and Dean gratefully pretends the few seconds didn't happen, though no arguing with the results. 
Shucking off his boots and coat, Cas climbs over him, and it's hard to fight the smile, because it's been a long time since Cas did that.  Rolling over, Dean notes Cas--for once--doesn't station himself on the opposite side of the bed, curling up comfortably beneath the blankets less than a foot away and looking genuinely startled to realize how close they are but noticeably not enough to move.
Also, Cas is actually tired: the skin beneath his eyes looks bruised.  "You okay?"  Cas didn't sleep at all last night--creepy angel habits, he thinks fondly--and drama first thing in the morning with magic and kids can't have helped.  Though…if Dean' right, that's genuine sleepiness.
"It is," Cas says softly, despite his best efforts sinking into the mattress like he's finally getting how goddamn amazing it is.  "It's very pleasant."
Yeah, it is.  Dean thinks of lazy mornings in bed, the times the sun was well into the sky before he dragged his ass from bed, pleasant lethargy combined with doing something he shouldn't.  Comfortable, he thinks, building the body memory in his head for Cas of the weight of the covers and the give of the mattress, the cool of the room compared to the warmth of the bed.
Cas's eyes fall half-closed, sinking into it like he's feeling it all himself, breath released in a tremulous sigh. "Oh."
Licking his lips, he thinks of other times; mid-day naps just because he could, falling into bed at dawn after a hunt, exhausted, but the good kind, of work well-done; the sheer relief after days on the run and finding somewhere safe to crash for the night.
Instinctively, he avoids the memories of his year with Lisa, his weeks with Cassie, the mornings he woke up in someone else's bed. He's hazy on the reason, but it feels wrong, like offering secondhand what should only be given new or not at all.
The memories themselves aren't what he needs, anyway, just the feelings; how he felt waking beside the solid presence of another body, the slow, steady sound of their breathing beside him, the drowsy sense of being somewhere he didn't have to leave, not yet.
In Chitaqua, waking up to the familiar walls of his room, the lumpy-springy mess of the mattress, the faint sounds of Cas in the kitchen on his second cup of coffee and contemplating breakfast options as the sun broke the horizon.  The drowsy sense of being somewhere he was supposed to be, that he would never have to leave because it was his own, before he rolled over to go back to sleep blanketed in a contentment as warm as the pile of covers he slept beneath.
Watching Cas sink into the bed like his bones forgot they were bones, he thinks about how much getting answers has to do with knowing when not to ask a question.  
"You sleep better these days."  More, too, and yeah, he's noticed.  Cas may not be on board with food yet--though chicken-noodle soup really might be the cure for anything if Cas's reaction to it is any indication--but sleeping regularly, that he seems to get.
Cas nods sleepily, eyes a bares slit of hazy blue beneath the sweep of dark lashes.  "Very.  Much more pleasant than passing out."
Dean focuses very deliberately on half-awake mornings when he was just too comfortable to move but not quite tired enough to go back to sleep. The best kind of mornings; not quite time to get up yet and nothing to do, thoughts drifting without direction or purpose, the background noise of the shower and Cas cooking and sometimes voices from patrol or early visitors. 
"I bet," he murmurs, shoving aside the vague aches and pains to shift closer, sharing the sense of comfort in another person's presence--in Cas's presence.  That first eternal week after he woke up from the worst of the fever, when consciousness was brief, too often slid into barely-remembered nightmares and abrupt blankness, the sense of time being missed, and worst of all, the loss of self beneath the weight of it. There are a lot of Hells to be had on earth, and the Pit's tortures couldn't hope to touch the horrors that the human mind can create for itself.  
Cas would be there, solid in a world as substantial as cobwebs and shadows, and Dean may have forgotten his own goddamn name, but he never didn't know, the way he knew nothing else, that he wasn't alone. It was like Cas didn't ever sleep or something, how he--
"You always knew when I was waking up," Dean says, making himself focus; if he's not careful, he's gonna put himself to sleep and not just Cas….
Oh.  "So I've been doing that for a while."
Cas nods sleepily, barely a shift against the pillow, oblivious to the revolution in progress behind Dean's deliberately soothing thoughts of rest and relaxation.  "I suppose it was to be expected. You know what it's supposed to do, and it took advantage of your greater knowledge, of course."
Dean is just able to interpret that: Cas's body worked out the sleep thing by doing it when Dean did and learned from that.  How anyone could have expected that is--well, this is Cas. "I didn't know I was doing that."
Cas does something like a shrug, barely disturbing the blankets.  "I didn't either."  
That happens with things that are new; like life, they're just full of surprises, and sometimes, they're pretty fucking awesome.
"It is," Cas agrees huskily, voice softening enough that Dean would have missed his next words if they weren't so close.  "I'll miss it."
The sour edge is unmistakable, and so is the shiver, a bone-deep cold that has nothing to do with the number of blankets on the bed or the temperature of the room.
"Guess winter's finally decided to show up," he murmurs, eliminating the few inches left between them before he can stop and think about what he's doing and why.  "Just a sec."
Cas nods drowsy agreement, learning for the first time how two bodies fit together like this with every guiding touch. Some things you don't give secondhand, and it's as much for himself as Cas that he's glad this he didn't show, that this moment belongs to him alone. 
Never in his life has he been so aware of another human body, every sharp angle and surprising curve, slivers of warm skin appearing beneath his fingers that make him pause.  He isn't sure he even breathes until he hears Cas's contented sigh, nestled warm and safe in the protective arc of his body.  Doing weird shit in the courtyard must have been exhausting; kids are safe, Amanda and Kamal, too, no need to worry anymore, time to rest.  Good job, by the way.  You did it.
He can feel the belated reaction now, the adrenaline spike wearing off and hindsight kicking in like the bitch it always is.  Rubbing soothing circles into Cas's back and cursing the layers of shirts, he murmurs wordless reassurance, wishing he could remember more.  Next time, he's gonna be there, and he doesn't mean just in fucking possibly literal spirit. Save him a few bruises that way, too; think of that?
Cas tips his head back to look at him in sleepy reproof.  "That wasn't my fault."
Dean shows him all the ways that it's his fault, and reliving Mark learning a very valuable lesson is almost as good as doing it.  Maybe better, but that could be the audience, whose expression lightens in satisfaction as Dean shows him again, lingering happily on the parts where Dean kicked so much fucking ass even though he could barely keep on his feet.
"Your transitions could use some work," Cas murmurs, making Dean scowl at him half-heartedly as a wave of approval washes through him; Cas, he thinks, and looks like he can handle a little Cas after all.  "Far more than I thought possible, you and Alison. I should have known better than to doubt you."
Dean hesitates: telling himself it's not jealousy is a lie, but it's not just that.  Show me something. Anything.
Cas doesn't answer for a long moment, and Dean waits for the refusal, but then Cas moves abruptly, easing up until he's looking into Dean's eyes.  "You're certain?"
He nods, mouth dry, and Cas cups his face, fingers shaping to the curve of his cheek.  For a moment, nothing happens, then he's falling into endless blue that resolves with a snap into--a house.  Bobby's house.
Specifically, the porch of Bobby's house, and Dean watches, fascinated, as Bobby glares over a mouthful of nails at Cas, standing stiffly a feet away at his angelic best with a blank expression Dean's come to realize is Cas utterly baffled by humans and their ways.
He's also, Dean notes gleefully, holding a hammer.

Bobby makes an exasperated sound and loses several nails that fall to the porch and begin their inevitable roll to the steps.  Cas flickers a glance at them, freezing them in place and they obediently roll back up the porch and hop one by one into the rusted can by the wheel of Bobby's chair.


Carefully taking out the others, Bobby sighs.  "Didn't I just tell you about doing that?"


When in doubt, stall.  "What?"


"The nails, idiot," Bobby spits out, eyes narrowing.


"You would have just told me to get them for you," Cas answers.  "I anticipated my orders, yes--"


"You know damn well I would have gotten them myself--"


"Which there is no reason for you to do, since I'm here," Cas says reasonably.  "To fetch nails, as it were.  Perhaps you forgot?"


"I don't need a babysitter!" Bobby snaps, and for a moment, the blank expression trembles as Cas looks down just enough to hide him rolling his eyes.  "Now give me that hammer."


"You said the best way to learn was by doing," Cas states, crouching to manually pick up a nail from the can and approaching what Dean sees is a loose porch rail.  Not anything big, and Bobby could handle it in his chair, no sweat.  "Therefore, me doing this would enable my ability to learn it, and should be encouraged."


Bobby's still glaring at him as Cas gets to work, but the minute his back is turned, Bobby's expression softens.  "You know they're expecting you back, Cas."


"They're still arguing over the second version of the model," Cas answers, precisely hammering the nail into the wood in a single controlled hit and getting another nail, moves to the next spot.  "We've been away from the house too long.  Anticipating future issues and repairing them now will assure small problems don't become greater ones.  I anticipate it will take us no more than a week to assure the house is in acceptable condition."


Bobby's mouth twitches.  "A week, smartass?"


"Two tiles on the roof need to be replaced, the second floor bathroom has a small but very persistent leak, two boards on the back porch are showing signs of early rot and need to be replaced, and the lift for your chair to the second floor is substandard," Cas recites, moving to the third nail.  "I did some research and spoke to a contractor, who gave me a bid on building a new version and he was very certain he could complete the installation of a new model in three days.  He'll be here the day after tomorrow to evaluate the current location to assure it's adequate."


"Cas--"


"If he performs his duties to my--and your--satisfaction, I'll take him to Alpha to install it in the two buildings that are currently in progress, including one with direct access to the conference rooms on the second floor from your suite on the first floor," Cas continues, finishing the fourth and fifth nail before turning around to look at Bobby curiously.  "Though I can understand why you didn't insist before; those meetings are boring and no one seems to realize shouting does not increase anyone's desire to reach consensus.  Are humans always like this?"


Bobby blinks helplessly; it's like, where do you even start there?  "You can't take him to Alpha."


"What we're doing is not illegal," Cas answers, sitting back on his heels.  "But he'll only remember it as the headquarters of a non-profit that focuses on rural issues--whatever those are--when he's done, which will be confirmed by the non-disclosure agreements he'll sign here if you find his work adequate.  Daphne agreed to draw up the paperwork for me, and as she just separated from Merrill Lynch to begin her own firm, she's very eager to help us establish our organization as a legally recognized 501(c)(3) for tax purposes."  Bobby's mouth drops open.  "The retainer I offered was very convincing."


"Alpaca farming in Greece?" Bobby asks incredulously.


Cas shrugs.  "Wealthy people often create charitable organizations as well.  It's a thing they do. Elijah needs professionals if he's going to establish Alpha adequately, and having a contractor on call who will happily ask no questions for a sizeable fee will help speed up construction.  He agreed with my assessment."


Bobby makes a face, and Dean can almost see him deciding to focus on the issue at hand.  "The lift here is fine."


"It might break," Cas counters, looking up at Bobby disingenuously.  "It's slow and the materials used for construction substandard. At the time, it was all we could afford. Now we can afford the best, and we'll acquire it.  As well as finish work to improve general accessibility, but your instruction is adequate for me to do that myself."


"I ain't a charity case!" Bobby explodes, face red, but Cas just tilts his head.  "I don't need your money!"


"Room and board for two and a half years that I've lived here between jobs," Cas answers.  "I researched the average rent in this state, and adding in one third of every utility bill, the amount--"


"I don't believe this," Bobby mutters, glaring at Cas.  "Boy, you think I'm taking your money…."


"Why not?"


Bobby's eyes narrow.  "You know you and Dean are always welcome here, no strings attached."


"Family," Cas agrees easily.  "In which I understand the concept of 'debt' does not exist. All members contribute to the welfare of all without expectation of recompense, I remember.  I just thought you might have forgotten."


"That I--"  Bobby cuts himself off, scowling at Cas.  "Think you're smart, don't you?"


"I was well-taught," Cas answers, and Dean sees the faint smile before he stands up.  "I took pictures of the roof and the areas where the tiles are loose or have been damaged and they're on my laptop.  I also recorded the entire roof so you could view them in context.  While I understand the principles of repairing buildings, I could use your assistance in the practical aspects so I don't do it badly.  I thought I could make dinner while you examine the damage and decide how we should approach it."


Bobby snorts, checking Cas's repairs to the rails and nodding approval before turning his wheelchair to the door.  "If you think we can repair that roof in under a week, you got another think coming."


"Then we'll take all the time necessary to do it well," Cas agrees, and even from here, Dean can see him fighting the urge to reach for the handles of the chair and push Bobby inside himself.  "I'd like to try to prepare the beef stew you make during winter, if you'll give me the recipe."


"Recipe's up here," Bobby says, tapping his head as he gets inside the door.  "Go ahead and take the meat out of the freezer and I'll show you how to thaw it.  It's all in the simmering, boy."


Cas nods as he follows Bobby inside. "I look forward to learning about it."

Dean blinks, startled to find himself lying on a bed again, but the impression of happiness lingers; two weeks from Alpha doing repairs on Bobby's house, enjoying the companionship of a man who didn't see an angel or a weapon, someone to be feared and avoided or worshipped (Jesus Christ, he doesn't even want to know) but someone who treated him with the exasperated affection of a friend.  
He knew Cas missed Bobby, but not like this: the low, habitual ache of absence, a bruise that still hurts when touched, but the good kind, because it comes with the memories, good ones, some of the best in his not-quite-human life before Chitaqua.  
"Come here," he whispers, threading his fingers in the mess of dark hair and tucking Cas's head under his chin, feeling the hitched breath, the faint sigh of bittersweet pleasure.  "Get some sleep."
It's an hour and a half past dusk when they get back to Chitaqua (Dean got just enough time for a quick talk with Amanda and for Manuel to confirm Alison and Teresa threatened to kill them if anyone woke them up again before morning), and Dean watches Cas dissolve the wards with prejudice (rubbing alcohol and salt on the doorframe: interesting, and looks like they'll need to repaint that soon) before he obediently goes through the revocation process, which isn't unlike standing there looking attentive while doing absolutely nothing.  
(Wait, he got to say something in Enochian once; that was pretty much the high point.)
It's about as exciting as ritual magic usually is, which means not at all, but Dean's still contemplating how someone in the room woke him up from one of the top ten naps in his entire life unable to read anyone's mind and, in what he's really sure is an unrelated event, has been in a shitty goddamn mood since.  Not the yelling kind either, no; he's got the brooding, sulking, despairing, not-talking version, which just proves Cas isn't allowed to sit around alone contemplating his feelings anymore.  That ends shitty for everyone (hear that, Sam?  This was caused by feelings).
(Cas's relationship with his feelings is a whole subject in itself; it's like half the time he's surprised he has them at all and the rest bewilderment on what they mean or what to do with them or why they won't just go away and leave him alone.  Because that works.)
On the other hand, Dean woke up (after, let's say it again, one of the best naps of his life) feeling well-rested, less in pain (until he moved; was that a mistake), and experiencing what may or may not have been a revelation, or at least an idea.
Finally, Cas says, hoarse,  "It's done."
Dean drags his attention back to the room, frowning uncertainly; so that was anticlimactic.  Not every day are you gonna get the wards lighting up the camp, he gets that, but maybe the cabin shaking or the lights going off, something….
Tugging off his coat, Cas winces as it slides down his right arm, getting Dean's undivided attention.  "You okay?"
"It's nothing--"
"Then you won't mind if I check.  Sit down."  Cas hesitates, then crosses to the couch, and yeah, he's definitely holding his arm wrong.  Crouching, Dean unbuttons the worn flannel, catching the second wince as he eases it off Cas's right shoulder and revealing dried blood on the thermal beneath.  Hissing a breath, he rolls up the sleeve and studies the neat cut above the elbow before looking up at Cas. "You wanna tell me what happened?"
"Teresa used my blood to unmake the design in the courtyard," Cas says tonelessly. "Spilling her own blood might inadvertently get the attention of the earth--I really wasn't up to the amount of time it would take to explain what we were doing."
Dean looks up from deciding how to get the thermal shirt off.  "That bad?"
"The earth understands earth, but she's correct about how interested it is in human things," he rouses himself enough to explain.  "Especially if Teresa's involved.  I don't think it'd object, but it is curious, and explaining could take weeks…." He trails off, glancing at his shoulder without interest.  "It's just a bruise.  I moved too quickly, but Alison's lack of concussion should explain the reason."
"Let me check it," Dean says firmly, reaching for the thermal and working it up carefully, freeing Cas's left arm and head before easing it down his right arm and hissing.  The cut's shallow--already scabbed over, he probably forgot all about it--but the shoulder's already purpling and still in progress.  Taking in the shape--and looking closer, the faintest remnants of white dust--it looks like he may have come down on the box of chalk from the daycare they used to draw the circle.  And possibly broke it, though his clothes protected him from the splinters. 
"Stay here," he says warningly, but Cas's slump tells him it wasn't needed.   Going to the kitchen, he finds what was once just a first aid kit and now qualifies as a very small but extremely well-stocked portable hospital in a series of boxes that now have an entire shelf in the pantry as well as the bathroom, for those emergencies where one room away is just too far.
Apparently, he spoke too soon: the cabin doesn't shake, the lights don't go off, but Dean fumbles the first aid kit, bracing a hand on the floor at the sudden disorientation, a nauseating sense of wrongness that seems to go on forever before it abruptly stops.  
Gasping a breath, Dean blinks rapidly, looking around; the kitchen, yeah, he's still crouching, but something's missing, and it takes a few long moments to realize what and where exactly it is.  Licking his lips, he shuts his eyes, following the sense of something he hadn't even realized was there until it was gone, a gaping sense of absence like an open wound, raw and unhealed, scraping across his nerves like broken glass.  It may heal, but he gets the feeling that the sense of absence, of something lost, is something he'll never lose.
Tightening his grip on the kit, he stands up, testing his balance carefully, and then grabs a bag of ice from the fridge--Cas is always prepared--and returns to the living room, not surprised at all at what he finds.  Perched rigidly on the edge of the couch, Cas may have looked bad before, but that's nothing to now; it's like everything Dean's feeling now but a couple of orders of magnitude stronger.  Rejection, even the metaphysical kind, hurts, and it probably doubles down when on some level you didn't want to do it at all. 
Sitting on the arm of the couch, Dean sets the open kit on the coffee table in easy reach before forcing himself to focus on Cas's arm.  The cut isn't bad, but deep enough for Teresa to be sure she'd get enough blood, and it deepens near the elbow enough to barely miss stitches territory.  Cleaning it by habit, Dean closes the deepest section with butterfly bandages before wrapping the entirety with clean gauze and taping it in place.  Cas doesn't react, but right at this moment, Dean doubts Cas would notice if someone started carving him up with a blunt instrument.  His attention is turned inward, and from the utter blankness, whatever he's feeling in there is worse than anything that could happen out here.
Lips tight, Dean forces himself to finish taping the gauze in place, eyes flickering up to the bruising and focusing on the healed gunshot on his upper arm with a scowl.  The skin's split around the edges of the angry ridge of still-forming scar tissue (probably from impact with the box) because Cas pulled out those stitches twice without thinking and it shows in how it healed and the spots that are still weak.  Cleaning it--it's not bad, but Christ, you'd think Cas learned how to treat healing wounds by now--he tapes a fresh bandage in place and sits back, evaluating it for any potential for mobility problems, because this is something he always thinks about now.  
Despite Cas's best efforts to fuck up the healing process (that's not happening again), he doubts it'll be a real problem. The layers of scar tissue are still pliable despite appearances, and after the second time he pulled the stiches he made an effort to be more careful; given time, if it's not reopened, it'll be nothing but a slightly thicker stripe in a duller shade of white. 
It's not even close to the worst scar Cas has--the last two and a half years haven't been kind, even for a hunter--but until now, Dean's only seen them in brief glances before making himself look away, and this time, he doesn't.  The whole is more than just a sum of its parts; Cas's body is also telling two very different stories, and one of them even Cas might not really know.
Setting the bag of ice against the bruise--Cas's continued lack of reaction is telling--he studies the bare expanse of Cas's back, taking in what he's seeing and fitting it together in the context of a world where hunters are soldiers, where what they hunt now isn't only in the shadows, where the war against Lucifer is only one of the things they're fighting.  Some are easy to identify, the source obvious; some he doesn't but he can guess; some he wants one day to be able to ask Cas about.  
The anti-possession sigil is placed high on one shoulderblade, aggressively black ink in solid lines and precise in the details: totally Bobby, probably gave Cas a fifth of whiskey and a command to drink it all since he'd be working straight on solid bone.  Low on his back, dipping into the edge of his jeans if he wore a goddamn pair that fit, hovers a complicated knot of whorls and loops, not an edge to be found, twisting into itself like a ouroboros met a Mobius strip on a blind date and bred like it was going outta style.  Easy to get lost inside each endless coil: he averts his eyes before he loses time doing just that and makes a mental note to ask Cas about it one day.  
Following the knobby ridge of his spine as it emerges from the sagging waist of his jeans, his gaze lingers on the puckered bullet scar an inch to the right before making himself move on, shifting to a white on white line winding pencil-thin just above it.  Frowning, he runs his thumb over it and bites his tongue at the feel of thicker scarring hidden beneath.  Four raised parallel lines low on his ribs just right of the spine, each a quarter inch wide and half an inch apart: claws on a guess, just a brush, or by the size Cas wouldn't have a ribcage left even if they missed his heart.  The fading remains of a puncture on his right side, loosely oval and healed almost to nothing: not deadly unless a broken rib sliced up a lung before he got treatment.  A longer gash high on his right shoulderblade that trails off on the back of his upper arm, jagged-edged and messy, and just below it a wide swathe of skin beneath his left shoulder just above the blade, not quite old enough to lose the shine of a burn, but the shape of a short dagger will last forever, tip pointed at his spine; off the top of his head, he can think of ten rituals that start like that before getting to the good parts if it wasn't just done for fun.
He thinks he gets now why Cas hates mirrors, and it's not just missing his wings; from the Host down to Dean fucking Winchester, he's always been a weapon, born to the first and thoroughly well-trained to the second.  All he would see reflected was all the ways he's failed; every goddamn scar is just proof: not of survival, but how without Grace, he wasn't quite good enough.
Suddenly conscious of what he's doing (sitting here staring at a half-naked Cas without even the excuse of medical shit to cover it), Dean slides off the arm of the couch to repack the kit, taking it back to the kitchen and buying himself a few more minutes to think about what it is he wants to do and why.  Sure, he didn't know the consequences of giving blood, but it's not like Cas did either. He gets the potential danger, but come the fuck on, 'weird thing that he can't remember happening' (and random mindreading, fine) is very low on his list of shitty consequences when historically, he's consented--in his right mind, even--to things that sent him to hell, killed him, almost made him a meatsuit for an archangel, and occasionally has him jerking off to the memories of wearing women's underwear.  

You don't realize how dangerous it is, to give someone that kind of power over you.

Scowling, he realizes he's rubbing his bandaged finger again and makes himself stop, taking a deep breath before crossing the living room and kicking the coffee table back enough so he can drop on it like a box of rocks.  "Cas.  Look at me."
After a long moment, Cas looks up, blue eyes dull. 
"We need to do the wards again."
Cas nods tiredly.  "I will, as soon as--"
"'Both of us," Dean interrupts. "Just like last time."  And waits.
Cas goes still, color draining from his face, and yeah, that's what he thought. Power doesn't corrupt, Cas told him; it's weakness unacknowledged, actions unregulated, the choice you make between being an angel and a shark.  
"This isn't about what happened today," Dean says more quietly. "It's about you."
Cas licks dry lips and doesn't deny a goddamn thing.
Thing is, Melville was talking in metaphor and never met an actual angel in his life or he'd know how many definitions there are for 'choice' when it comes to a being with cosmic powers and unquestioning obedience to their Father's will.  
Answer: more than there are stars in the sky.  A lot of sins can be covered under the blanket of obedience to orders, and the first is how little it mattered what they did provided they got the job done.  Or at least, to some of them.  
"Humans do this," Cas whispers.  "Manifest before you in our glory, tell you there is great work for you, and you'll say yes without a second thought once the mindless terror has passed.  It's baffling."
Dean scowls. "I didn't."
"No, you didn't bother to wait for an explanation before giving your blood to me," Cas answers sharply. "Intentions are meaningless; what make you so certain that I won't act as the Host would when given power over you if I thought it was to your benefit?"
He wants to tell Cas this: 
You chew the fuck out of your pencils.  I remember what happened to that pen and no, I don't believe that was accidental use of angelic strength, your teeth marks were all over it, and by the way, ink was still on your lip. I should have said something but I didn't.  
No one, Cas, no one would burn untested sigils into their true form to get an archangel's Grace because the wards need power and your only question was why not.  But if they did, they sure as hell wouldn't consider its entertainment value as a major feature and the best part.
You like coffee and hate Microsoft and laundry day; you get your subordinates high to make them feel better because you go with what you know when you don't know what to do; you hate food but you're becoming inexplicably good at cooking it; you like making maps and have the calluses and a goddamn tackle box of art supplies to prove it.  You installed lights in the camp and started building a new mess because Home Improvement Weeks One and Two got you thinking and why not?  I don't know what you're going to do next, and I'm pretty sure you don't either, but I'm looking forward to finding out.
"It's got nothing to do with being an angel," Dean tells him, thinking of Bobby at his house with Cas, how Cas didn't try to push Bobby's chair, how he asked for instruction so he could help Bobby without implication that Bobby couldn't do it for himself.  He could have used his Grace to make the house perfect, but instead he spent two happy weeks on home repair and negotiating with a contractor because what Bobby wanted, how he felt, was more important than what Cas wanted for him.  "Grace, whatever, that has nothing to do with it: the difference is, you're you."
Cas stares at him, a glimpse of infinity in drowning blue.  "Dean--"
"When I told you that I trusted you, I meant it.  But it's all or nothing; to lose it, you gotta break it first.  I'm not doing it for you."
"That doesn't even make sense," Cas grits out, looking annoyed enough that Dean figures maybe, just maybe, something got through.  "I don't want--"
"--to hurt me?  Then don't," Dean interrupts.
"And if I do anyway?"
"Stop doing it," he answers.  "And fix it.  And apologize, of course."
Reaching down, he pulls the knife from Cas's boot, flipping the blade into his hand.  "You were right about fixing this; I didn't know what I was doing, and you didn't know it would do anything at all. Now, I know and so do you, so this time, we'll do this right, full consent from the get-go, all the bells and whistles.  Whatever the hell those are."
"Dean--" Cas licks his lips again, and it's only now Dean can see he's shaking. "I still don't know…."
"Yeah, you do," he says.  "I get it now, what Alison was talking about; you're a box.  In there's all that was, that is, that will be, but you put in one more thing: one impossible thing.  Me."
Cas's eyes widen, and yeah, he figured Cas didn't think his shitty plan all the way through.  He can work with this.
"What actually happened in Kansas City during that confrontation with Lucifer.  Who you brought back to Chitaqua that night.  The reason the Apocalypse isn't over yet."  He swallows, mouth dry; this has gotta work.  "All my secrets--the biggest secret in the world, Cas--and it's in your head, where no one, not demons or psychics or fucking Lucifer, can go.  Need another reason?  I got it for you.  You said it yourself; the properties of the original are carried to the rest by contamination. It's not just psychics that can't read me.  That day in Kansas City, he didn't even know I was there, even though you did.  He couldn't get into your head, and that means he can't get into mine."
"There's no way--" Cas pauses.  "There's no way to know if your blood is needed for that."
"For the wards to work in the cabin, maybe not," Dean concedes, holding Cas's eyes.  "But it's not the wards that protect me when I leave Chitaqua; it's you. You said yourself this wasn't supposed to happen; you were right, it wasn't supposed to, but it wasn't your fault."  Tugging off the bandage, Dean holds up his finger, the clean line of the cut utterly unmistakable for what it is now that he knows what he's looking at.  "That was me.  Amanda took my knife when she got to me, and she said there was still blood on the blade."
Cas's eyes fix on the cut for a long moment.  "That--"
"Same place you cut when you added it into the wards," Dean agrees.  "I knew what I was doing, Cas."
Licking his lips, Cas looks at him helplessly.
"Wherever I go, whether you're with me or not, you're protecting me," Dean continues, fighting down urgency; this has got to get through.  "Whatever you think the risks are, I'm willing to take them, because there's no fucking reason not to trust you with this when I trust you with everything else."  He searches Cas's face before adding, "Dude, who knows? If it comes down to it, in a choice between you and Lucifer as Evil Overlord, I'd definitely pick you.  At least the afterparty would be less torture, more drugs and orgies."  It kind of boggles the mind what kind of sex life Cas would have as a god: zero refraction time, millions of people.  Party might last generations.
"Not funny," Cas mutters, eyes narrowing like he knows exactly what Dean's thinking, but there's a faint quirk to his mouth, because it's true.  It's an effort not to just shake him for not getting it, the part that he can't explain because every mirror Cas looks into only shows him what's flawed.  "What you're asking--do you understand what it means?"
"Yeah, I do," he answers.  "Now show me how to get this done."
He doesn't think he breathes until Cas finally nods, his hand steady as he takes the knife from Dean before the long fingers close around his wrist, tugging him unresistingly to his feet.  At the doorway, he drops Dean's wrist, blue eyes meeting his, and this time, there's nothing casual about what he's doing.  Ritual, ceremony, they're important, not just meaningless gestures as a prelude to the words; there are a lot of kinds of power, and it's in everything you do, whether you're trying to get it or use it or both.
Holding his gaze, Cas breathes rough-edged words into the heavy, waiting silence, each slicking through the air the same way the edge of the blade slices through his own forearm.  Turning away, Cas crouches on the ride side of the door, blood-stained fingers filling each and every symbol carved into the dense wood as he murmurs their names.  By the time Cas finishes the last one on the left side of the doorway, the entire frame is covered, the most recent glistening briefly before fading to a thick, tacky matte that vanishes before his eyes.  He tries to calculate how much blood Cas has lost--and how much he's losing now--and then loses his train of thought as Cas stands back up.
Without prompting, he extends his arm, and Cas takes his wrist in that impossible grip, thumb sliding over his pulse before pressing in; it takes a minute to realize that's his heart he's hearing, a steady, monotonous thump.  He could be taking a goddam nap for all his body knows right now, instead of willingly participating in the sketchiest ritual blood magic he's ever even heard of with someone who made it up from first principles.  It's not that he doesn't get the danger in this; it's not only him trusting Cas, but Cas trusting him.  They've already proved, completely by accident, that Dean can influence him, and neither of them even knew he was doing it.
"The Host laid siege to Hell for forty years to claim your soul; that was our only goal," Cas says, blue eyes incandescent.  "I was the first to find you, and by right of combat claimed your soul.  With that claim the siege was over, and Hell lost the war, but the Host wasn't who won.  The terms were set before it began, and in claiming your soul, the victory was mine as was your soul, as the spoils of war.  Do you understand?"
Numbly, Dean nods; all he can really think was that this went a lot differently before.  Cas's grip tightens, just enough for him to remember verbal confirmation is pretty much mandatory. "Yeah.  Yes, I understand."
"Dean Winchester, do you dispute my claim?" Cas asks, and Dean's distantly aware of the drip of Cas's blood from the knife hovering just above his skin, streaking it in vivid crimson.
Dean licks his lips.  The difference, he thinks, may be that between not knowing what you're doing and doing it anyway, and knowing not just what you're doing, but why you're doing it.  Everything counts, even how long it takes him to say the right words, but the most important part is meaning it; that part, there's no question at all.  "No."
"Dean Winchester," and oh, there's more, Jesus Christ, "I claimed your soul by right of combat and as spoils of war, and that makes it mine to do with as I choose.  Do you accept my claim to you and my right to do that?"
"Yes."
Dean doesn't actually get more than an impression of Cas drawing his thumb across the blood speckling Dean's unbroken skin in a line before the knife cuts down the center of it, welling up in vivid crimson.  This time, Cas is the one who takes his blood, and this time, each goddamn symbol one by one is filled.  He finds himself staring as Cas gets the last one, a slow-motion brush of his fingers before everything goes really, really weird, and he hears Cas whisper, just for him, "Given freely, this is a gift, and with it, I will never do you harm."
Later--he really doesn't want to know how long--he finds himself sitting against the wall, kind of vaguely staring into the utterly mundane kitchen and noting that he forgot to close the pantry door.  Sitting because it's kind of what's holding him up; left to his own devices, he's guessing he'd be like Cas, looking up at the ceiling with a startled expression, like he's still working out what it's called and what it's supposed to do.  Looking down at his arm, Dean observes the lack of bleeding and really isn't all that surprised by the skin already half-closed under the drying blood.  He's just guessing here, but he thinks that's gonna be a new and completely different kind of scar to add to his collection.  A glance at Cas's arm confirms a perfect match, so he thinks he can safely take anyone bleeding out off the table.
"Hmm."  Cas begins to grin, blue eyes closing briefly as he arches against the floor in a slow, languorous stretch that for some reason requires all Dean's attention until Cas finally goes boneless against the rug.  It takes a few long moments to figure out where, and more importantly, when, he's seen that look on Cas's face before.  It's been a while, but the memory's burned into his mind from the days Cas wasn't working on expertise in celibacy or perfecting his shower technique. 
Turning his head, Cas gives him a drowsy smile, and Dean's mind catches up almost enough to remember he could, actually, look away; what he's not clear on is why.
"That was good for me."   He's watched actual porn less pornographic than Cas rolling on his side, loose and relaxed and fucking post-coital.  "How about you?"
@@@@@@
--Day 143--

He didn't actually mean it about the snow.
Well, he did, but he was thinking of snow balls lobbed in the face of everyone (totally combat practice) and somehow convincing Cas to make a snow angel (hilarious) and maybe building some kind of snow-based fort thing (why the hell not?).  The grey, filthy slush in a thousand parking lots around the country is nothing like the white brilliance of untrodden snow as far as the eye can see.  Which would be to the walls of Chitaqua, sure, but still, untrodden snow.
That was three days ago; two days ago is when he learned the only thing that he was right about was the view, and wow, Cas was right about the weather being weird these days.  Clammy chill to blizzard in four hours or less: if it isn't a record, it should be.
It not that it's not awesome--pristine snow, walking in a fucking winter wonderland--except that walking thing isn't happening because they're still working on the living thing.  Curled up on the couch between mounds of pillows wearing three layers of clothes and two of socks beneath more blankets than he thought were even in the cabin (some weren't, but their origin, who cares? He doesn't) with two of the saddest space heaters in the world doing absolute bullshit for the heating situation but giving a really pretty glow.  
His only consolation--and he means this with all his apparently claimed soul--is that Cas hates it worse than he does and is miserably engaged in nailing a layer of tarp over the front door (again, Dean's not asking where it's all coming from; Cas just better fucking provide) that's their only other defense against the hostile outside world.  It matches the doors to the icy death that's the kitchen and the Arctic Circle that's the bedroom.  Hideous paisley whatevers are draped over each window, which means Dean's fucked even for the view unless he wants to die, cold and not alone if he has anything to say about it.
Every so often, he manages to tear himself away from enjoying Cas's suffering to give the bedroom door (behind its own tarp and rug covering) a hateful look, which is where he'd be if someone (Cas) wasn't such shit at home repair that while they know the freezing cold is coming in there from multiple goddamn points, they can't find where or how to fix it if they did.  Because his inspection of the cabins for winter worked out really well--everyone else is fine--except for theirs because he didn't think it needed it.
Huddling more deeply beneath the covers, Dean blows out a breath--very white--and wonders how the hell Cas survived winter the last couple of years.  Sure, body heat's great, especially in groups, but eventually downtime happens, that's basic biology here, and sweat might freeze slower than water, but at these temperatures, it was gonna happen.
When the last nail slots into the wood with malice aforethought (and from Dean's perspective, with the head an inch deep in the wall, it's never coming out), Cas turns to stare at him with more smite than a Host of Zachariahs.  Dean glares back with pretty much all he's got, which would be working much better if his teeth weren't chattering and he had some kind of idea where the fuck his feet are these days and go on faith they're somewhere in the mass of blankets.
"Fine," Dean says ungraciously.  Cas is smart enough not to require enthusiasm; there's a brush of dead-cold-holy-fuck-death air and then Cas is a strangely shaped ball burrowing beneath all the blankets ever.  Fuck Dean's entire life; body heat from two people means his teeth stop chattering, and he can almost remember what warm is like.  He just can't fucking win.  
"Better?" It's much less hostile than he wants it to be; his toes exist again, painfully and obviously, and his fingers are starting to figure out that moving thing again.  "How the fuck did you survive two winters in Kansas anyway? Angel powers of not freezing to death?"
"We're not in danger of freezing to death and never have been," Cas starts, muffled by layers of blankets before his head emerges from a lump of yellow-green fuzz.  "I've already told you that this room is and has always been well-insulated--"
"Right, priorities; couldn't have imminent hypothermia fuck with the orgy schedule," Dean snarls back; seriously, he can feel his fingers. They hurt.
"Exactly.  I dealt with the problem then as I'm doing now--"
"Because you never used any room but this one, I forgot.  Danger of me freezing to death, who cares?"
Cas blinks at him slowly, tilting his head.  "You weren't here--"
"That's not an excuse."
"How long can you keep this up?  I apologized, though I don't see why--"
"You don't see why."  Dean can't even deal with this.  "You got off on--"
"I'll spare us both having to hear those words again, but no, not exactly, and I explained this more times than there have been hours in the last week.  Angels enjoy ceremony, and the more complicated and more formal, the better.  Why on earth do you think they used Latin so often and seem to approve of Catholicism?  It's not an attractive language, and the policies are--but," he adds, eyes going weirdly, terrifyingly soft, "they have a truly inspiring grasp of ritual and in this form, that apparently translates in a very specific way."
"Are you listening to the words you're saying?" Dean takes a deep breath, appalled at pretty much everything.  "Tell me you haven't ever gone to mass--"
"No, not since we came to Chitaqua.  If I had, I would have been aware of the--" Cas pauses. "Translation.  On consideration, I should probably avoid attending any formal religious ceremonies in the future."
"Your porn would be mass?"  He actually said those words.  Out loud.  
Cas tilts his head, thinking about it.  "Communion would be--"
"Oh God, shut up."  Slumping further in the nest of blankets, Dean tries to pretend this isn't happening, or at least, not to him.  
"The Pontifex Maximus of Rome presided over ceremonies that required letter-perfect performances," Cas says dreamily, and this isn't, isn't, isn't happening.  "Sometimes they would last all day…."  He grins.  "I'm sorry, are you uncomfortable?"
Yeah, Dean thinks glumly.  In so many ways, and Cas just invented half of 'em.  "So let's talk about something else.  Anything else.  I mean anything else that's not how you're a freak."
Cas snickers contentedly, sinking deeper into the blankets with a sigh, which is just kind of unfair, because Dean's mostly defrosted but the shivering's still happening, and five minutes, Cas is just fine.  And after Dean made sure to keep him out there long enough to suffer much, much more than this. 
"You're still shivering," Cas observes, with that uncanny grasp of the goddamn obvious he's famous for, peering at Dean's face as if searching for an explanation.  "The room is already a full two degrees warmer.  Which I suppose means your suggestions regarding insulating this room were good ones."
"You're not getting--" Off that easily, even words are against him right now.  "Never mind.  Whatever, you're forgiven.  Don't want to die with you sulking on my conscience."
Cas's head tilts a little farther, blue eyes narrowing before he suddenly straightens.  "Don't move," he says, blissfully unaware Dean's joints have been onboard with that plan for a while now.  There's squirming, and Dean is abruptly tipping sideways into a short freefall before hitting something not as soft as a cushion but a hell of a lot warmer.  Another shift and Dean's actually experiencing--holy shit, warmth, and here he'd thought that was a myth--and Cas's breath drifts pleasantly over his ear as he murmurs, "Better?"
Dean doesn't stiffen, flush, or even feel weird, which it only belatedly occurs to him he should, or at least fake it well.  This is what happens when you do something not unlike a member of the cuddling family during difficult time in both your lives in which one of you was telepathic and the other really beaten up.  It happens.  To pretty much no one but him, yeah, but the point stands.
Also, it's fucking cold. The rules are, there are no rules; time to improvise.
"Just a sec."  Dean locates his knees between Cas's--still there, awesome--and twists sideways, burying his face in thick wool after shoving aside the zipper to Cas's jacket. Holy shit: new world goddamn order.  "Yeah," he decides.  "This works.  Good call."
"I live to serve," Cas answers, irony thick enough to slice and put between two pieces of bread, which Dean thinks may mean he's kind of hungry.  "As your space heater, if necessary."
"Gotta keep that soul safe," he agrees contentedly, which makes Cas snort a laugh, ruffling his hair.  "So new way to die: hypothermia.  Like living in an Ice Age, but sadder, since we're gonna die because you didn't think to inspect our cabin."
"I told you--"
"You never used the bedroom," Dean mutters half-heartedly.  "Never noticed the cold before because orgies.  Blah blah blah."
"We'll fix it as soon as the snowing stops," Cas says sincerely, tugging the grey wool blanket into some breathtakingly genius configuration of warmth.  "James should return from his route in the next two days--depending on the weather--and Nate surely knows how to repair buildings if he knows how to build them.  I'd also like to point out that you were the one complaining about the lack of snow."
Dean thinks about how much he didn't really mean it about a new ice age, but that does remind him.  "You think the patrols are okay?"
"They've lived in Kansas for almost three years," Cas answers.  "Each jeep was equipped with winter survival gear as of the beginning of December, I verified the contents personally, and Sheila and Frederick check each jeep before it leaves the camp.  If in the face of snow and freezing cold they didn't have the sense to protect themselves, this would be what I'd consider a very workable example survival of the fittest."
He honestly can't argue with that. "What's your take on Lee's performance so far as team leader?"  
With teams out in the wilds of Kansas at the moment and Joe out of the camp--having spent the first few days of Hanukkah as pro-tem leader of Chitaqua while he and Cas were dealing with the kids, he went to Ichabod with his team and Rachel just before the blizzard hit to celebrate the rest of it with Leah and the small Jewish community there--Lee volunteered to take another few days on local while Alicia's and Damiel's teams helped out around the camp to keep it running. 
Joe also planned to talk to Alison about Ichabod's New Year thing that they're apparently supposed to attend because allies means attending parties as well as fighting evil (assuming blizzard conditions improve, that is, and they fucking better.  He did not know that was a perk; he and Sam were never invited to parties after saving people (and towns, for that matter).  He approves of this change a lot.)
"Very well," Cas answers. "I spoke to Jane in the mess this morning after patrol met here," at an unholy hour before dawn when they came in to talk about the new and exciting subject of no monsters but now happening in snowy conditions, "and she was very positive regarding his performance.  Lee was very competent and reasonable once they were past the initial awkwardness that heralds establishing a satisfactory working relationship, and while they are still in the adjustment stage--"
"You're quoting her, aren't you?" Twisting his head around, he looks up at Cas incredulously.  "She actually talks like that?"
"--there is every reason to assume that integration into a team as well as part of Chitaqua's patrol structure will be successful," Cas finishes with a sigh.  "Yes, I am and she does.  Lee's become far more thorough in giving verbal reports as well; Jane is very encouraging, and I suspect he's hoping that proficiency will make her stop doing that."
Yeah, Dean woke up just enough from his spot in the mattress they moved into the living room to hear the whispered reports happening near the door and vaguely remembers Jane's encouraging smile pointed at someone.  He almost feels bad for the guy; that's a lot of earnestness to be pointed at you all the time.  On the other hand, Lee's cabin doesn't need repairs to retain heat, so whatever.
Which reminds him…. "Okay, is it just me or was Kyle volunteering to take Damiel's day shift on local so she could have some downtime weird?" Dean didn't realize Kyle in a cheerful mood could be more grating than vague hostility, but that meeting proved the impossible.
"It was," Cas agrees after a brief hesitation, and Dean is just about to comment on Kyle's second official act of community spirit before he remembers what was going on during the first one.  
"By the way," he adds casually, fixing his gaze on the TV, currently only a really large, taunting wall ornament to conserve electricity for the heaters for the foreseeable future, "how's the dryer elf trap thing coming along?  You and Alicia still working on the final draft?"
"It's still in progress," Cas answers, but the ripple of tension is just the confirmation Dean didn't want.  "There's far too many things to do to waste time on something purely speculative."
Come to think, Dean can't actually remember the last time there was an extra cup in the sink when he got up in the morning or Cas reported the latest camp gossip over breakfast, and the few times he's seen Alicia have been official business only: the meetings with patrol teams and the one in the mess with the entire camp (those in residence, anyway) when the snow started and at the time, he thought would just be precautionary and holy shit was he wrong.  It may not mean anything--they've been out of the camp a lot since the attack on Ichabod, Alicia's been on state patrol, snow--but Cas's reaction tells him it does.
Thinking back, he tries to remember anything specific happening--did she and Cas have a fight? About what?  When?--but one, he's pretty sure that kind of camp gossip would have made it to him on its own one way or another, and two, Cas would have told him, if for no other reason than Cas would consider that professional as well as personal when it comes to the team leaders.
Kyle's community spirit plus (smugly?) good mood, add in Alicia no longer coming over to hang out plus Cas, and it's kind of obvious something's going on, though the exact nature of 'what' is still in the air.  Alicia and Cas actually having had some kind of argument, the possibility that Kyle's influencing Alicia somehow and Alicia's letting him, or Alicia simply not having time to stop by and say hi because she's got a new boyfriend: none of those are palatable as possibilities, and for that matter, none of them match what he knows about Alicia.
He's just considering how to frame a subtle question regarding Alicia (and possibly, fuck his life, Kyle) when he realizes if Cas wanted to talk about it (assuming there's anything; hey, he could be wrong, though he's definitely not), he would have.  Second choice is getting up, grabbing his coat, and stomping across (into) the drifts of snow between here and Alicia's cabin, but fortunately, it's cold enough to delay him until the realization of that being crazy kicks in.  (That he actually even thought about it should probably qualify as well, but whatever).  It's not like this is camp business, or even his business: it's Cas and Alicia business, and he can't order Alicia to be friends with Cas again, because again, crazy.
"Dean?" Cas asks, and Dean makes himself relax; if he can tell when Cas is tense, there's no way Cas can miss it with him.
"Just thinking about when the blizzard will end and we can decide where you want the garden," Dean improvises and closes his eyes: yeah, gardening in three feet of snow, Christ, not close to his best work.  "You know, it wouldn't hurt to see if anyone else wants in on the action.   Couldn't hurt to grow some of our own vegetables here.  You know, now that we know people who can tell us how. I talked to Teresa and she offered to come by and check out the land when we're ready, tell us what we need to do."
"You did."  Dean bites his lip against a grin at the surprise in Cas's voice.  "When?"
"Morning after we talked about it," he answers easily.  "Thought I forgot?"
"I thought…." Cas hesitates, probably trying to find a way to say 'didn't think you meant it' without using those words. "There have been more important things that required your attention."
"And this is one of 'em," Dean tells him, aware of a pleasant sense of lethargy.  "You have map of the camp; we'll look at it tomorrow, see where a communal garden might go after we get ours up and running.  Don't want anyone stealing our potatoes or peppers; fuckers can grow their own."
"Dean…"  He trails off as Dean shifts one more time to accommodate his still-existing bruises and discovers that while Cas isn't better than Alison's guest room mattress, he beats the hell out of the one here.  Tucking his head between Cas's shoulder and neck, he lets out a breath, feeling suddenly so comfortable he could nap here, and hey, that's a good idea. Cold plus bruises and added shitty mattress have not done any favors to his nights.  "Dean?"
"Just--" Dean yawns, tucking his hands between Cas's outer and inner sweater and not even laughing maliciously when he flinches.  Utterly perfect: why the hell didn't he think of this before?  "For a minute."
"Great and small, you pay for them all," Cas murmurs cryptically.  "Alison would appreciate this.  Never mind," he adds and Deans' eyes lose the fight to stay open when a warm hand cups the back of his neck.  "I can certainly think of far less pleasant ways to pay penance."
Dean dozes off and on until well after dusk--off a bitter five minutes spent in misery for Cas to go to the bathroom (he's starting to get Cas's bitterness about humans' need for 'em), and a hideous minute and a half when local reported (Cas got rid of Kyle's team on the porch by dint of telling them unless Lucifer is actually in the camp at this very minute, he doesn't care what happened on patrol and to go away)--but the faint brush of death-frozen-fuck-that's-cold air brings him fully awake just as Cas says in the most gratifyingly threatening voice ever, "If he so much as shivers, I will kill both of you."
"Cuddling on the couch while talking about bloodshed." Amanda, sounding like she's laughing at them.  "Honest to God, if I'd imagine domestic life here, this is exactly what it would be like.  Do you compare scars, too?"
Dean blinks the sleep from his eyes to take in Amanda and--oh, Joe--getting the tarp and rug back down over the door and seriously wonders if he can fake a shiver.  They're both, he notes, in warm looking parkas--fucking Alison and her well-stocked town and regular trade--and carrying blankets and what looks like--hey, several duffle bags and a couple of backpacks between 'em.  Even from here, the smell says food is involved.  Warm food. 
"We come bearing company and food," Joe confirms as he clears the coffee table and opens one of the bags and removes a large thermal container he doesn't recognize from what's stocked in the mess.  "It's both or neither: you pick."
"Chicken," Dean says, introducing himself into the conversation and a world redolent with steam and good things without moving a single inch when Joe removes it from the container and sets it on the coffee table.  "Dude."  Tearing his eyes from the best thing ever, he squints at them both, focusing on a suspiciously innocent Joe.  "I thought you were in Ichabod for a couple more days."
"It's winter holiday of your choice week," Amanda answers easily as Joe shrugs.  "Mike wanted to get back to Sheila for their first Christmas and do the cute couple thing--"
"They have a tree," Joe interjects as he returns from his epic journey to the ice cavern that is their kitchen with plates and silverware.  "They made each other ornaments."
"And learned to knit to secretly make each other matching mittens," Amanda says in wonder, shaking her head.   "Not that he made a big deal about it--Alison invited everyone to her thing tomorrow--but we decided to bring him back in the spirit of the holidays and true love."
"Mittens," Dean echoes; he would not have called that for Sheila, or Mike for that matter. "They made each other mittens?"
"They're terrible," Joe tells him, kneeling to set the plates on the coffee table. "They both showed me, asked what I thought.  What the hell do you say to that?"
"You say 'he or she will love it'," Amanda counters, opening up another container.  "They're probably cuddling on the couch by now in their mittens, talking about their day.  Or scars," she adds innocently, aiming a smirk at Dean. 
Dean pauses in his hungry stare at Joe filling a plate.  "Funny."
"At least Mike and Sheila don't carry on like they're living in a goddamn romance novel and we're their supportive best friends with nothing to do or want to do but listen to their love story," Joe mutters, swapping containers with Amanda. "You couldn't pay me enough to drive Andy to a rendezvous with Kat."
Dean glances at Cas, who's frowning.  "What?"
"If you're wondering if wanting to shoot Andy in the head when he opens his mouth is normal," Amanda tells him, "it is.  Just knowing he's in the room and could potentially do that is enough to make me reach for a weapon."
"Jealous?" Dean asks, but grins at Amanda's narrowed eyes; he knows what she means.
"Of Sheila and Mike, maybe a little," she concedes, adding something from a third container as Joe opens the fourth, holy shit they brought a lot of food, container (mashed potatoes, this has got to be a hypothermic hallucination) and apparently finding the contents pretty fascinating. "Sue me, I'm a romantic. Fall in love with your best friend, knows the worst and best of you and still is willing to do it with you anyway, and have the chemistry to back it up?  That shit's rare."
"Could happen," Dean offers, averting his gaze to Joe, who's staring very hard at the plate he's adding green beans to, and wonders exactly why Joe's not with Leah in Ichabod.
"Does this look like the setting for finding the love of your life?" Amanda asks lightly.  "Bargain bin romance: I wouldn't buy it."
"If you're the one writing it," Cas says unexpectedly, "you'd be amazed the places--and entities--one can find true love. The Great Swamp, for example."
Amanda straightens.  "Hippofucker?"
Dean stares at her.  "How--"
"Vera, she kept us updated before she left," Amanda interrupts, and Dean leans back in the face of Joe and Amanda's sudden attention.  "How far are you along? Is he fucking hippos yet?  Inquiring minds want to know."
Dean shuts his mouth, looking at a startled Cas.  "Who," he starts, "is 'us'?"
"Everyone who could get to her cabin between nine and ten in the morning after Cas was occupied with camp shit and you were still sleeping, which is the only time she could reliably get the spiral," Joe says, like it should be obvious.  "Well?"
Cas casually leans over Dean's shoulder.  "I might have time to make one copy."
"What do you want?" Joe asks, because he's smart like that.
"Bidding ends on New Year's Eve," Cas answers brightly.  "Ebay rules: there is a reserved price, and you must exceed it to win."  His eyes fix on the plate in front of Joe.  "Hunger raises the reserve."
"You asshole."  
"So you drove all the way back to Chitaqua--in a blizzard--to bring Mike home to Sheila?" Dean asks, trying not to laugh at the disgruntled look on their faces.  Never make a deal with an angel: you won't win, and worse, with some of 'em, you might not even mind too much.
"Wasn't that much snow," Amanda scoffs.  "An inch, whatever, I grew up in the Northwest.  I don't even pay attention until we get to six."
"It's eight inches now," Dean says, wondering if maybe he slept longer than he thought.  A glance outside confirms no, he didn't.  "When did you leave Ichabod again?"
Amanda rolls her eyes, taking the plate from Joe and passing it the other side of the coffee table in front of Dean before starting the next one.  "We played I-spy on the way.  It passed the time."
"When?" Dean asks, again.
"A couple of hours before dawn," Joe says challengingly. "I was up anyway."
Dean gives the curtained window an incredulous look; life without a clock means discovering you can develop a pretty good sense of time.  "Fourteen plus hours of I-fucking-spy driving through snow.  One of you shouldn't be alive."  Picking up the plate, Dean passes it to Cas, and sitting up slightly, gropes for Cas's knee and shoves it up to lean against as well as anchor the blankets.
"It got a little dicey for a while there," Amanda admits.  "But human flesh isn't kosher, so--"
"Fuck you," Joe interjects, passing the second plate directly into Dean's reaching hands as Amanda pouts.  "We heated everything on the range in the mess before we came over.  Figured if you weren't dead, you'd be hungry."
Dean looks between them and thinks about the bounty of food they brought with them (...is that dessert?), the way they avoid his eyes, and suddenly gets it.  
"Glad you came home.  For the holidays," he adds in a moment of inspiration, and grins at Amanda snorts while Joe says something probably really rude in Yiddish, but weirdly enough, it's actually kind of true.
The room is surprisingly livable by the time they finish the main course (or it may be the company, who knows?), and Dean shares his blanket stash with Joe and Amanda so they can take off their parkas while they have after dinner coffee (laced with Irish cream from some magic place of liquor that Joe's gonna share the location of very soon or else) and not just dessert but pie.
"Pumpkin," Amanda confirms as she lays it in front of them with justifiable reference.  "They're still working on their fruit supply, so most is dried or preserved and only for super-special occasion stuff.  So I told Alison you loved pumpkin, since they have a lot of that and are kind of sick of it, and helped with pie-making."
Dean grins at her. "Good call."
"Got ten of 'em locked up in the mess, gift from Ichabod for insert the winter holiday you celebrate," she adds, matching his grin.  "Also, I traded for two cases of canned pumpkin, contributed by everyone who heard a rumor we like it and wanted to lower the chances they'd have to eat it themselves.  Brenda can get Brian to help her figure out what to do with it."
Dean watches in satisfaction as Cas's eyes follow Amanda's cutting motions and the placement of said slice on the plate.  Looking up, she notices Cas and bites her lip before gently nudging the plate toward Cas, who uses speed for the very awesome purpose of making the pie seem to vanish only to re-materialize in his hands.  Oblivious to the attention of everyone in the room, Cas cuts off the tip with the side of his fork before taking a bite and closes his eyes with an expression that's kind of…uh, something.
"Right, you want a piece?" Amanda asks belatedly, raising her eyebrows at Dean as she cuts a second piece.
"Yeah, thanks." Taking the plate, he fights to ignore Cas having a really, really intense relationship with that piece of pie.  "So, what'd you trade?"
Amanda hesitates, looking at Joe, who shrugs.  "My next run to the military outposts, Manuel's team's bringing Lanak and her crew to shop, see if there's anything they can use, two jeeps worth of supplies, we transport."
Dean nods, looking between them.  "And?"
"This is separate," Joe says, sipping from his cup.  "I thought--your approval pending--when Amanda's kids are ready, a team of 'em comes with Ichabod's supply crew, and I supervise them learning how to run escort for civilians as part of their training.  Not that we've used it much here," he adds, giving Cas a glance and grinning at Cas's utter lack of attention, "but Cas taught us all the principles near the end of our training, and it'd be good practice for us, too." 
Dean takes a bite of his pie, remembering what Cas said about the last couple of weeks of training when he made up new shit for them to learn because he was enjoying himself and why not?  On a guess, escorting civilians around was among those things.  
"Whole camp could use a refresher," Dean says after swallowing.  "Definitely something we're gonna be doing in the future.  Cas?"  Cas looks up from his--kind of terrifying--stare at his empty plate to blink at Dean.  "Escorting civilians--camp need to review that?"
Finally, he's got a definition for that expression; Cas reviewing an entire conversation at the speed of light. "Yes," he says, and something in his voice tells Dean that yeah, this will definitely be new for some of them. "Joseph, when you talked to Alison regarding their New Year celebration, what did she have in mind?"
Joe looks up, mouth full, and swallows hastily.  "Uh, that it's a party and we should be there for fun and socialization with the other members of the alliance: why?"
"Security."
"Host provides security," Joe says, looking baffled, but Amanda straightens, wiping her mouth with an interested expression.  "At least, when the towns are hosting parties for each other, which--this is going somewhere?"
"Good intentions," Cas says, leaning over precariously to get the pie and tug it to their side of the table.  Joe starts to pick up the knife before Cas's boot knife is in his hand, cutting the remaining third of the pie in half and taking one of the pieces.  Settling back with an overfilled plate, Cas continues. "Find out if Manuel would be willing to supervise our teams assisting Ichabod's teams with patrol duties that night.  We can rotate them to assure all have ample opportunity for socialization."
Joe starts to protest, but Amanda's already nodding.  "I like this, and I think Manuel would go for it, and not just because he really wants to see how we work together and everyone gets more time to party."
Dean cocks his head, following Amanda's expectant gaze to Cas.  "Well?"
Before their fascinated eyes, Cas cuts a quarter of the slice--holy shit, that is not bite size by any stretch of the imagination--and inserts his knife into the center of it and eating it off the blade before the pumpkin can slide off, since pumpkin just isn't firm enough to do that.  Chewing complacently--without choking, even--he swallows before saying, "In general, the impression we want to give is of competence as well as not being soulless monsters murdering all those who oppose us. Visibly working under Manuel's command and with his teams will demonstrate we're trustworthy, and will supplement our efforts to appear amiable and approachable in the more social atmosphere of the celebration.  Which reminds me: everyone will need to be reminded to use protection and each jeep's condom supply supplemented."
It's not that he doesn't believe that (not the condom thing coming standard: he found the official spot for them under the back seat and did the Chitaqua-math), but this is Cas and his reasons have reasons.  "What else?"
"I want a reason for everyone attending to be armed at all times," Cas answers, taking a more modest bite, though not by much; Dean's really got to find out who's been demonstrating those kinds of eating habits and tell them to stop that shit before this ends in the Heimlich, and hey, he should learn that.  "With Ichabod's consent and blessing, of course, which this provides."
Amanda nods, expression serious.  "The kids."
"They aren't useful anymore, but there's no way for that knowledge to be spread without someone attempting to finish the ritual again," Cas agrees. "I doubt even the stupidest demon would try during a town-wide celebration, especially now that it's probably general knowledge we're known to be in Ichabod, but I'd rather not risk getting one that manages to indeed be that stupid."
"There's that," Dean agrees, finishing his own slice and eyeing the remaining third that Joe's hand freezes in his reach for.  "Split it?"
"In thirds," Amanda says warningly, taking the knife and the pie herself.  "That's the part I think Manuel's most interested in."
"So you think they'll be okay with it?"
Amanda nods as she apportions the pie between them, though Dean notes her slice is noticeably larger than his or Joe's.  "I think they would have asked, but Alison didn't want to make it sound like we were there to be hired help and not guests."
Cas frowns.  "I don't understand."
Making a face, she sits back, glancing at Joe hopefully. "People thing," Joe starts, waving his fork.  "In the trade alliance, the towns are all equal and every mayor and deputy mayor has an equal vote, or in this case, mayor, deputy mayor, leader and his second.  At the last couple of meetings, I proxied for both you and Dean--the mayors and deputies send representative sometimes themselves, so not a big deal--but it's still very theoretical."
"Me and Cas are theoretical?" Dean asks in bewilderment.
"That just because we're not a town doesn't mean we don't have equal membership and are just mercenaries they hired for protection," Joe says bluntly.  "Or, to put it another way, we're not the alliance's private army. Or the mayors'."
Dean sits back, startled.  "You think they might…"
"Not now," Joe answers.  "So now's a good time to make sure it's never.  If we work New Years, we make damn sure some of us are guests, too.  Being thought of as the attack dog isn't much better than the soulless conquerors, Dean."
"When is the next full meeting of the trade alliance?" Cas asks, setting his empty plate back on the coffee table with a regretful sigh.
"Glad you asked," Joe says cheerfully. "Second day of the new year.  This is the big one, by the way."
"Dean and I will attend personally," Cas says in resignation, giving Joe a dark look (could also be he still has pie on his plate).  "That's where this was going, I assume?"
"Yes, sir," Joe agrees.
"Why," Dean asks suspiciously, "does this feel like you're also trying to get out of going?"
"Because I am," Joe answers.  "Democracy's great, I approve, but not live and in person about vegetable quotas and livestock breeding for a whole goddamn day.  However, they also need to see--not just know--that you're both voting members of the alliance and see you actually doing it.  We trade less goods, more services, but it's still trade, not payment by the highest bidder for services rendered and never will be."
Dean doesn't need Joe to explain what that might mean.  "So everyone going to Ichabod for New Year's needs to be briefed on what to do if they're ever asked to help out with a local problem between residents, and that includes the mayors."
"I'll do it," Cas says, brightening.  "All the patrol teams should be back in three days; I'll make the final list on who will go to Ichabod then."
"And announce state patrol's suspended for a week," Dean adds belatedly.  "I was gonna do it when everyone came back, but snow fucked that plan up, so they get it late."  
"And those not going to Ichabod?" Cas asks.  "I'd rather it be voluntary, if possible."
Dean looks at him thoughtfully as Cas takes his empty plate and sets it on top of his own, which frees Dean to burrow back under his (admittedly smaller) blanket pile.  "Got something in mind?"
"I have a few ideas," Cas answers, reaching to tuck in a loose edge under Dean's thigh.  "How soon it stops snowing will be the deciding factor."
"Can't wait to hear it."  Turning back to Joe and Amanda, he realizes they're both grinning at them fondly.  "What?"
"Contemplating my consistent role in the great romance novel that's the Apocalypse," Amanda says, exchanging a look with Joe before reaching for the plates.  "Hey, how 'bout I take these to the kitchen?"
"I'll help," Joe says brightly, jumping up to help her collect dishes.  "Be right back."
Dean waits until they're in the kitchen before looking up at Cas.  "We can't throw them out.  They brought food. From Ichabod."
Cas makes a face before nodding reluctant agreement.  "Sean's been gone for nearly a week and Amanda's cabin has been empty since she went to Ichabod.  So it would probably be polite to invite them to spend the night here.  We can't, actually, afford for them to freeze to death; there's no one qualified to replace them."
As Amanda and Joe return, Dean grins at them widely enough to tell them yeah, he'll pick this up later, which Amanda answers with a smirk. 
"So," she says, plopping down on the mattress and getting her blankets.  "What are we doing tonight?  The night is young."
"I have an idea," Cas says, and Dean watches Joe's eyes widen in comical alarm. "Please.  One painfully straight male, one lesbian female, and a monogamous committed couple in the throes of romantic love," Dean has to bite back the snicker at Cas's ability to make 'throes of romantic love' sound like a clinical term for a really embarrassing social disease, "are the least likely combination for group sex possible."  He makes a face. "It's also very cold, and I'm very comfortable where I am."
"How the mighty have fallen," Amanda observes mockingly, but the fond look's back. "So whatcha got in mind?"
Dean has to actually see it to believe it: the library/utility closet/TARDIS (fuck his life for letting Sam get him watching the BBC) does, in fact, have a stack of board games ("Top shelf, right side, behind the box of reports for October first through tenth.")
Standing on a kitchen chair, Dean contemplates the endless ways a finite space can house apparently everything (are those Snuggies in here? Wouldn't be a surprise) before grabbing the top one and then returning it when he sees it's Risk and fuck no.  
Closing the door behind him with the safer choice, he returns at a fast walk to drop the box on the coffee table for Amanda and Joe to deal before burrowing back into his blankets.
Amanda looks dubiously at the box.  "The Game of Life?"
"It's the only one I don't think you can strip to," he answers grimly, giving Cas a glare when he opens his mouth to tell Dean just how that would work.  "Don't--just don't."
Taking off the lid, Joe handles set up while Amanda squints at the jobs.  "Artist?" Like she has no idea how that's a job.  He's with her there; what do you do all day with that?
"Yeah, we need to update this," he agrees.  "Anyone got a pen?"
"In the kitchen," Cas answers unexpectedly, fixing his eyes on the rug-covered doorway.  "So is the alcohol."
Dean hesitates.
"Doesn't count if you put it in coffee," Amanda offers hopefully, and that decides him.
"Go," he says, pointing Cas toward the kitchen before holding out his hand to Amanda.  "Give me some of the cards."
"Fuck," Joe says in disgust as they start game four, halfway through their first pot of coffee and their second bottle of whiskey.  "Why the hell do I keep getting Zombie as a career?"
"Vampire pays better," Amanda says in satisfaction, counting out her salary before giving Cas a suspicious look.  "For the record, the salary for hunter is ridiculous."
"You mentioned that several times now," Cas answers easily, reading his revised salary card.  "Credit card fraud is extraordinary lucrative.  Dean?"
Dean's still wondering what the hell he was thinking.  "You really had to put Savior of the Apocalypse as a career choice?"
"We took a vote," Joe reminds him as he spins.  "You lost.  Get over it."
"Yeah, but how do I keep getting it?"  Dean turns his head to look at Cas, who volunteered to shuffle the cards.  "Dude, I taught you that to use for good, which means not against me."
"Oh God," Amanda says in horror, almost dropping her tiny plastic car. "You taught him how to cheat at poker?"
"Oh yeah," he says maliciously.  "Thanks for inviting me to the weekly poker games, by the way. Wanted to makes sure what cheats you knew and I didn't.  That'd be none, by the way."
Joe nearly drops his cards.  "You were playing us?"
"Was it good for you?"  Joe says something really rude (or Cas's smirk seems to imply, Dean's Yiddish is getting better in sheer self-defense, but that was a lot of words), which Dean forgives in the spirit of winning. "You gonna tell?"
Amanda sits back.  "Alison?"  Dean neither admits or denies it, but yeah, he may have been thinking about that.  "Promise I can watch when you unleash him, my lips are sealed."
"And me and Amanda split a quarter of the winnings," Joe adds.  "Alison owes us this one."
"Done."  Picking up his cup, he mentally measures the level and wonders if he can risk much more without trying to convince Cas to bust out the Eldritch Horror.  Sure, they'll all definitely die (freeze to death or alcohol poisoning, anyone's guess), but they'd be way too drunk to notice.  He wonders how many ghosts come from just that kind of circumstance.  It's a fascinating thought, which probably means this is very good whiskey.  And coffee, of course.  Tapping Cas's thigh under the mound of blankets, he indicates the board.  "Your turn."
"I’m using the name 'Delilah Sampson' to apply for credit in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars," Cas decides.  "I was accepted.  How serendipitous."
Dean finds himself exchanging helpless looks with the other two victims of Cas's utterly unsettling love of making rules.  "Right--"
"Just from morbid horror, anyone tell me why Alicia's having a party tonight and Kyle's the only one she invited?"  Amanda asks.  Dean doesn't spit out his whiskey-coffee, but it's close.  "Brenda and Amber have been taking shelter from the horror at Jody and Damiel's since the snow started.  Who is also housing a depressed Matt, Andy, and Andy's feelings, so that cabin must be fun."
Dean stares at her.  "How the hell did you--"
"Brenda and Damiel were in the mess when we were heating up the chicken," she explains.  "Had some time to kill, so caught up on the news and gave them pie.  How long has that been going on, anyway?"
Not looking at Cas, Dean spins and moves his car four precise spaces, which is a lot harder than it was earlier, like the car might just be possessed and trying to get away from a potential exorcism involving blessed whiskey and Latin (he thinks).  "Some of us were living in blissful ignorance."
"A week," Cas says, not looking up from the board as he moves his car three spaces ahead of Dean's before looking up. "Your turn, Joseph."
"Right." Spinning the wheel, Joe bolts his cup and hands it to Amanda for a refill.  "Five, and thank you all for the nightmares.  I better start stocking up now; this is gonna be Jane Redux, might as well be ready."
"He pulls that shit with her, he better sleep with one eye open.  Alicia doesn't take that kind of bullshit anymore and will tell him all about it at the point of a knife."
"Micah," Joe says, exchanging a knowing look with Amanda, and he feels Cas still: interesting.  "I remember.  Kyle's not that stupid."
"He's exactly that stupid.  Do me a favor and run intervention, or at least hide his body before our leaders see it."
"You know me and Cas are sitting right here," Dean points out; on a guess, he should know what this means already.
"Right." Amanda fixes him with a stern look, but has to take a moment to focus.  "If Joe needs a night off with a shovel, don't ask why."
As she picks up her car with a frown, Dean makes a mental note to work out a way to get an explanation one day when he's less drunk or Amanda's much, much drunker.  She's a talker, but considering her tolerance, from experience he knows he'll need to work on his own first if he wants to remember anything the next day.
"Mark does some carving," she says, poking the soft plastic sides of her car.  "I bet we could get him to make some better pieces."
"I bet I could order that," Dean agrees, setting the subject aside for later plotting.  "And make him do it.  Consider it done."
"Best leader ever," Amanda says with heartfelt sincerity, almost dropping one of her three tiny pink children before frowning at the board.  "It's not fair.  Alicia's hot.  I could totally rock her world."  Her frown deepens.  "It's like she never heard of Kinsey."
"Welcome to my life," Cas mutters, then becoming aware of the audience, adds, "Before I became involved in a monogamous committed relationship with Dean, of course.  Those days are behind me.  Permanently, I suspect."
Dean looks at him, ignoring the strangled laughter from the peanut gallery.  "If you could make it sound more like a prison sentence, I'd love to know how."
"The resemblance is striking," Cas tells him with a slow smile, and Dean can't quite look away.  "But I never said it didn't have its perks."
"Seriously?" he hears Joe say, and jerks his attention back to the board and picks up his pile of currency; this definitely needs counting.
"Still better than Kat or Andy," Amanda says sympathetically before looking at the board with a little smile.  "I just remembered--last time I played Life.  I was watching my sisters in--God, Wisconsin, that goddamn freaky motel, looked like a spaceship…"
"The Gobbler?" Dean drops the cash he was failing to count. "You stayed at the Gobbler?  When?"
"A few times, eighty-five to ninety-one."  Amanda shakes her head.  "What the hell was wrong--"
"That fucking poultry plant, I know.  Eighty-four to eighty-seven."  Dean sits back, amazed.  Fucking finally.  "That clucking--"
"Followed us for days," Amanda agrees glumly.  "Haunted by chickens.  Like, why?  Chicken souls, just--Mom ragequit when we started waking up with feathers in our hair.  Said no job was worth dealing with freaking ghost chickens."
Dean grins at her.  "Weird.  That may be the only place Dad didn't find feathers."
Dean isn't sure when Cas plays dick bartender and cuts everyone off, removing the glasses to the glacial wilderness of the kitchen (after, Dean notes in interest, finishing off the rest of the bottle himself) while Joe and Amanda sleep (passed out) on Dean's shitty mattress and the only warm place in the world.  Not that Dean's doing anything but staying within his cocoon of insufficient warmth while Cas stops to stare at them, like he just can't figure out how he became the sober one that gets everyone to bed and cleans up after them.  
Dean is just drunk enough to actually think this is a great time to start laughing hard enough that he's pretty sure he pulls a muscle or something.  
"How the mighty have fallen."  He knows it's stupid.  He does it anyway.  "Get the lights, would you?"
There's a ten second delay where Dean knows in his heart that Cas is trying as hard as he can to regain the power of smite before giving up, turning to step onto the mattress (Joe and Amanda bounce, but notably, don't wake up) on his way to the switch, flipping off the warm yellow overhead glow, and returning with only the power of his super-eyesight in the dark.  Useful skill that; lots of possibilities there.
Cas pauses at the foot of the coffee table, looking in the direction of the mattress for a moment, which Dean, in a moment of inspiration, interprets as trying to figure out which one he might have to kill to get some real estate there (Joe's larger and much less dangerous, but who will take over the border runs?).
"Dude," Dean stage whispers, interrupting Cas's calculations (who to replace Joe with; there's no one) and patting vaguely at the back of the couch.  "Come here.  I'm not kicking you off the couch."
"I'm not sure there's enough room."  From the mattress comes a sound not unlike a thump, and Joe makes a pained noise, which makes them both wince.  "We can make room," Cas decides hastily, and as Dean feels the end of the couch give, he passes all responsibility to Cas in how this is gonna work.  
The sad part here is, the couch isn't actually too small for them both these days.  Dean's post-fever self is probably in direct competition with Cas's hates-food chic, and depressingly, is probably winning.  Anyway, Cas is, in fact, a human-shaped space heater, which has got to be some weird-ass angel power, though off the top of his head, he can't think of a single possible use for that except the current circumstances. It's like destiny or something, but the good kind, which Dean really feels should happen a lot more in his life than it does (read: has never happened, so he's due).
It takes Cas about five seconds to realize the blankets aren't gonna magically get bigger, and Dean gets a kick in the thigh that he considers overlooking in the spirit of being a good roommate, but even without boots, that shit hurts.  
"Cas," he sighs, hideously aware that cold air is trying to work its way inside and totally fuck with his sleepy-drunk zen, and the obvious solution is to face reality.  Warm reality: seriously, Cas is better than a hot water bottle.  "You're supposed to be fucking me," he says (quietly, which for some reason makes Cas wince).  "What, now you get weird about touching me?"
There's an extended pause, and for no reason, he gets the impression that look he didn't get a few minutes ago is back, probably with interest.  Before he can start thinking about that too hard, though, Cas abruptly has a hand on his hip, urging him over on his side enough to push between Dean and the back of the couch, apparently under the impression Dean's got anything like a working sense of balance.  His mistake: Dean gets a foot in Cas's knee by sheer trying not to fall off the goddamn couch, and Cas makes a (quiet) sound, but super reflexes are working just fine, thank God. Landing on his side in the narrow space between Dean and the back of the couch, he plants a hand on the edge of the couch cushion catching Dean before he tumbles to the floor.
Rolling onto his back in relief, Dean turns his head to comment on some people maybe needing to lay off the whiskey when their tolerance is shit before they kill someone (or knock them to the freezing floor, which may be worse), but forgets what he was going to say; so Cas is really close right now.  Swallowing, he's suddenly very aware of the weight of Cas's arm across his chest, the press of his body along his side, and how Cas is looking at him from less than three inches away.
Way too much time passes while they stare at each other for any explanation Dean could come up with even if he was sober.  He should probably be doing something here--move out of the way so they can get back to the totally platonic cuddling for warmth, because Cas's boundaries aren't like other people's and God knows where his own went, much less when--but he's still stuck on--Jesus, he has no idea.
After a moment, Cas says, so softly that Dean almost misses it, "You're curious."
It's not a question, and Dean remembers abruptly that Cas's vision is good enough that he sits on the roof at night to view the world; whatever's on his face, Cas has got a perfect view of it.  "Maybe."
"Let's find out."  Jesus, that voice is totally different after a couple of bottles of whiskey and in near-perfect dark.  He shivers at the first touch of Cas's fingers tracing down his cheek, thumb whispering across the stubble along his jaw before Cas leans closer.  "How curious, Dean?"
The puff of warm air against his cheek sends another shiver down his spine, and he finds himself turning toward the sound of Cas's voice almost before the gentle pressure of Cas's fingers urge him to do just that.  For a second, he wonders if Cas actually expects an answer--even trying to make words work for him right now is doomed to failure--but Cas tilts his head, and the entirety of Dean's attention is on the brush of lips, rough from the cold, just long enough to make him start to wonder--maybe--before Cas slowly draws back, but still close enough for Dean to feel every warm puff of breath against his lips.  
Reluctantly, he opens his eyes, and the impression of a faint, teasing smile hits him like a splash of cold water, killing the fragile warmth before it even starts.  "Well?"
It wasn't real; of course it wasn't.  Digging his fingers into the couch, he stares up at Cas wordlessly, almost shaking from the effort not to punch Cas right in his smug goddamn face.  If he could remember how to move, he might not be able to stop himself from doing just that.
"Dean?" Cas asks, and maybe nothing but hearing the thread of worry--pity?--could have snapped him back into the room just as Cas starts to pull away.  "Dean, I--"
"Sorry," he interrupts, relieved his voice doesn't break.  "So that was it?"
Write your own story, Cas told Amanda, and Dean wonders what that would be like; he's never written a single word of his own.  His life here was Dean Winchester's, his epic romance the stuff of imagination by the camp, and saving the world--this one or the other--was written for him before Time was even born. 
He just manages a smile; he may not be able to see Cas's face very well, but Cas can see his just fine.  "Got anything else or can I get some sleep?"
Cas stills, and he gets a vague impression of annoyance, but he doesn't have time to find out for sure; the hand on his face tilts his head back.  He has a moment of bitter triumph in getting Cas to do what he obviously doesn't want to before Cas's lips brush against his, just enough pressure to get his attention before pulling back, gazing at him like he's trying to read his mind again.
He'd be surprised by what he saw if he could: every time Dean glimpsed him around the camp those early weeks, pinning someone against the wall of a cabin in two foot high weeds or wandering out of another one on a lazy afternoon rumpled and comfortable in his skin; every time Dean came to those team meetings to stand invisible witness to Cas's goddamn post-coital glow; God, when he stood in the doorway of Cas's cabin and just watched, forgetting how to stop or even how to want to: want more? 
He can do that.  
Every one of Chuck's letters to Gloria and the list of names that never seemed to end; every story the camp could tell that he could never stop himself from hearing; the way Cas still sometimes looks at Vera and Sean and Zoe and Lee, at James that night with Dean sitting in his goddamn lap like he wasn't even there, Haruhi at that party in Ichabod; the constant, bitter reminders of the way Cas used to look at him, like he could ever fucking forget, or forgive Cas for wanting anyone and everyone but him.
Cas's thumb slides slowly across his lower lip, and Dean loses his train of thought, breath catching in his throat as he follows the motion until it comes to an abrupt stop.
"Better."  Swallowing, he tries to gather his thoughts, but the tip of Cas's thumb slips between his lips.  "Much better," Cas murmurs, eyes fixed on Dean's mouth for a heart-stopping moment before he pulls away, easing up on an elbow to look down at him. "Don't move." 
Holding his eyes, Cas shoves the twisted mess of the blankets down the couch and braces his right hand on the arm of the couch above Dean's head, knee sliding between Dean's before shifting into a lazy stretch above him.  Dean's still processing that when Cas's left hand slides behind his back and abruptly, Cas is sitting back on his heels with Dean straddling his lap.
Grabbing for Cas's shoulder, he tries to work out what just happened, but Cas smiles up at him slow and dark, and he just doesn't care.  Warm hands smooth slowly down his back before coming to a rest at his hips, and even through three layers of clothes, he can feel the touch of every individual finger like they're pressing against his bare skin.  
"I have no objection to touching you," Cas says conversationally. "It would be far easier, however, if you were wearing less."
Dean nods belated agreement when Cas's fingers tighten warningly. "Yeah."
"Good."  Cool fingers wrap around his wrists, guiding his hands down until they're resting helplessly against his thighs. "Take them off for me."
It takes him two tries to get his fingers working enough to get a grip on the sweatshirt, hideously aware of Cas watching every move he makes, and jerking it up, nearly strangles himself before he manages to stop himself.  Flushing behind the barrier of suffocating cotton, he takes a deep breath and jerks it over his head and down his arms, nearly shaking by the time he shakes it free of his hands.
"Give it to me," Cas says, taking it from him and dropping it to the floor. Tilting his head, he glances down at Dean's hands fisted against his thighs, then back up, and Dean realizes in horror he's got to do that again.  Face hot, he unclenches his fingers and starts to reach for the ragged edge of the thermal, but Cas stops him, easing them back down with a quick shake of his head, and says in a very different voice,  "I want to do it."  
Holding his eyes, Cas reaches for the hem and slides it effortlessly over his head, warm fingers trailing the soft cotton down the bare skin of his arms until it, too, vanishes into the darkness beside the couch.  When Cas turns back, Dean swallows, looking away; they're one layer of clothing from a repeat of the last time Cas saw him without his shirt, and he doesn't think he can handle that the only difference this time will be Cas might be able to hide his reaction.
"Look at me," Cas whispers, and it'd be easier to fight gravity. He has a glimpse of incandescent blue before he's distracted by the pale pink lips, and he's leaning closer before he realizes what he's doing.  Cas makes a soft, encouraging sound at the first touch, and the tentative pressure strengthens, a hand curving around the back of his neck and tilting his head. Cas licks a stripe of heat across his lower lip before his teeth close over it, and Jesus Christ, what's he fucking doing?
What do you do when you see a cliff coming, anyway? You fucking jump.  That's what they're for.
Unclenching his fingers, he gets his hand free from between them, closing it over Cas's shoulder as Cas's tongue slides just inside, teasing.  Dean opens his mouth for it and the thin space of plausible deniability--like it could ever be plausible--vanishes, and Cas licks into his mouth and kills every thought he's got.  
Shifting his grip, Dean curls his fingers in Cas's hair, tugging him closer as he sucks Cas's tongue, pleased at the sound Cas makes into his mouth, callused thumb stroking over his cheek before tilting Dean's head and deepening the kiss into something that's no longer teasing.  Like maybe now, he's not just curious about Dean's reaction; like maybe this time, he means it.  
Cas's hand slides up his back, and abruptly he's back on the couch again, a breathless laugh escaping before Cas swallows it, settling warm and heavy on top of him and so much better than those fucking blankets.  Tangling his fingers in Cas's hair--and God, how long has he been wanting to do that, always, forever--he drags him closer, chasing the faint taste of whiskey in his mouth and shoving up the back of his sweater, frantic to get skin under his hands, dragging short nails up his spine and feeling Cas arch into his touch.
Cas growls--holy shit--pulling back to look down at him, and he thinks he's been waiting all his life for Cas to look at him like that.  He knows what to do with it, too; dragging his heel up the back of Cas's calf, he watches Cas catch his breath before wrapping a leg around Cas's thigh and shifting his hips until he can feel Cas hard against his thigh with a shock that reverberates up his spine.
He might have taken a second to think about that, but Cas doesn't let him; trailing a hand from Dean's hip to his knee, he pulls it higher, shifting Dean's hips up and settling with an almost audible click between his legs and against Dean's half-hard cock, burying his groan in Dean's mouth and swallowing Dean's own at the shock of contact.
Another bite to his lip, and Dean drags in badly needed air as Cas's mouth trails over his jaw, fingers threading gently through his hair before abruptly tightening, jerking his head back for a precise bite below his ear--God--the electric drag of stubble over the sensitive skin wringing out another breathless sound.  Cas lazily mouths a trail down the column of his throat, nosing the stretched collar of his t-shirt aside to suck a kiss into the sensitized skin where it melts into his shoulder, slow and luxurious, the dull throb of pain racing through Dean like a bullet and lighting up every nerve.  
"Cas."  He's surprised by the sound of his own voice, barely a thread of sound, but not by what he says; it's the only word his tongue remembers how to make.  "Cas--"
"Shh."  Cas's tongue presses against the hard beat of his pulse for an endless moment before his teeth close over it with slowly increasing pressure, only drawing back to trace the outline with his tongue before sucking a slow, endless kiss into the throbbing skin and Dean's panting for it.
When Cas finally pulls back again, he feels his thumb tracing the edges, licking over it one more time before finally letting Dean drag him back up.  Shoving a hand against his chest, Dean holds him back long enough to sit up and get hold of the sweatshirt and thermal to jerk them over Cas's head.  Cas laughs, low and rough, when Dean throws them off the couch, but the sound cuts off when Dean buries his fingers in Cas's hair, tugging him closer to taste the outline of his smile, letting his own weight tip them backwards into the couch before losing himself in the wet heat of Cas's mouth, the rough, steady drag of Cas's cock against his own, the slow build at the base of his spine.  It's unbelievably good and not nearly enough: two layers of sweatpants and fucking boxers, and that shit's gotta go.  
His fingers just brush against the sagging waist of Cas's sweatpants when he catches a vague sense of motion from the corner of his eye.  Cas reacts faster, head snapping around to fix on something to their right, and Dean follows his gaze, forcing himself to focus on the small mound of clothing settling on top of the coffee table and why he should care.
For a long moment, Dean almost convinces himself that they were there before, but he's pretty sure, now that he's thinking about it, he threw Cas's shirts a little farther than that.  And the silence right now--other than the sound of his and Cas's breathing--is suspicious all in itself.  Like maybe two other people in the room may or may not be burying their faces in all the pillows they can find. And then may or may not have gotten someone's clothes thrown on top of them.
Swallowing, he looks up at Cas, who's staring in the direction of the mattress like he's considering several options, not limited to simply picking it up and throwing it--and its residents--right out the door and pick up where they left off.  In the corner of Dean's mind that's still working, he registers surprise; historically (or so Dean's been told), an audience is usually the opposite of a drawback, and occasionally upgrades to an outright preference.
When Cas finally looks at him again, Dean doesn't need to be told that this time it's not; worse, Cas is thinking again, and that means now Dean is, too.
Vera told him once that straight guys didn't take it well when they hear they may be taking it up the ass.  He wonders how to ask how they take it when they realize they're half-naked on a couch under another guy and about a minute from getting off dry-humping his cock.  On a guess, she'd say he's asking the wrong question entirely, and he'd tell her this: no fucking shit that's the wrong question, and by the way, he may just have the answer.  
None of this helps with what's happening right now, though. 
"We should…." Cas trails off, and the only consolation is that Cas hasn't actually moved, but he'll take what he can get.  Then, with breathtaking sincerity, "Is this awkward?"
Dean blinks up at him, laughter bubbling up behind his lips at the look on Cas's face, and like that, it's not.  Well, it is, but--he swallows frantically, but it's not stopping--but it's….it's--
"Are you--"
Fuck his life: pulling Cas back down, Dean buries his face against his bare shoulder and laughs, laughing even harder when Cas collapses on top of him to do the same against his neck.  Every time he starts to get a breath, he imagines Joe's (or Amanda's) faces when Cas's sweatshirt landed on them after having probably gotten under enough pillows for plausible deniability and it sets him off again.  The temptation to call over an invitation to join in is thankfully lost beneath another burst of laughter; Joe might never forgive him, but Amanda just might fucking kill him, and God. God.
Stomach aching, Dean finally takes a deep breath--a few stray chuckles find air, but Christ, that hurts--and it occurs to him it's actually pretty fucking cold and while they're both still in sweatpants, Dean's the only one with a t-shirt and he can feel goosebumps rising on Cas's back under his hands.
"Get the blankets," he murmurs into Cas's hair.  "We're gonna freeze to death, and fuck being found dead like this."
Lifting his head, Cas makes a face, but the fact his teeth are less than ten seconds from chattering is probably pretty convincing.  Pushing up--and cold or not, there's no way not to appreciate the view, and Dean doesn't even pretend that's not exactly what he's doing--Cas sits back on his heels in an effortless shift of balance before twisting around to retrieve their blankets.  Belatedly, he grabs for Cas's shirts off the coffee table to do his part, then relaxes back against the couch to enjoy watching Cas handle the logistics from here on out.
Cas putting on clothes is surprisingly disappointing--it's cold, he reminds himself firmly--but in a few moments, he's tucked securely between Cas and the back of the couch ("You're wearing only a t-shirt," Cas explains, like he doesn't know the rest of Dean's clothes are literally an arm's length away and not lost in Antarctica or Peru or something), and hey, he was right; they fit just fine. Cas is a fucking fast learner, too, adapting what he learned in Ichabod and doing one better (of course), arranging Dean in a blissfully warm cocoon of blankets and himself. 
Pressing his cheek against Cas's chest, he closes his eyes when Cas's fingers tentatively thread through his hair and goes boneless when he slowly starts to stroke.  Throwing a limp arm over Cas's waist, he tucks his knee more firmly between Cas's before burrowing his hand under the sweatshirt and thermal to rest against the small of Cas' (warm) back and lets out a breath, content.  He could get used to this, and by that he means, he already is.
"This okay?" he rouses himself enough to ask, because that's just good manners, and drowsily notes the sudden heaving of Cas's chest and warm breath puffing against his hair without any clear idea of what it means.
"Yes," Cas says finally, sounding breathless, and Dean lets his eyes fall shut, lulled by the slow circles Cas is rubbing into the small of his back. "It is."

--Day 144--

Eldritch Horror has been the only glaring exception to Dean's ability to remember--in detail--exactly what he did when alcohol is involved, and while the waking up process these days is still slower than it used to be, when he gets there, that much hasn't changed.  Last night hits him and does it all at once, and so does the fact he's warm but not nearly as comfortable because he's the only one on the couch, and it says a lot which part bothers him more.
Pop quiz, Vera: how do straight guys feel the next morning after almost getting off enthusiastically dry-humping their best friend, and yes, he knows that's the wrong goddamn question.  Can't wait for your answer, though: looks like he's gotta improvise.
Cracking open an eye, he takes in the grey-lit room--snow's stopped, holy shit, it's almost sunny--and the lack of guests on the mattress, darting to the empty kitchen, and has just enough time to stiffen before Cas says, in the most normal voice in the history of normal voices, "The coffee is ready."
Coffee.  Okay, then.
Looking down and to the right, Dean sees Cas sitting on the floor, fully dressed, an open laptop and stack of reports on the coffee table before him, and experiences a moment of severe cognitive dissonance.  Sitting up, he shivers at the brush of cold--but not death cold--air against his bare arms and decides clarification is in order, and also, the bathroom, and guess which one isn't gonna wait.
"Thanks," he says in Cas's direction, grabbing the topmost blanket and bracing himself for the cold hell of bedroom and emerging into the toasty-warm bathroom in which a mysterious space heater has appeared that was definitely not there last night.  He blinks once before shutting the door and shoving a nearby towel at the bottom to conserve the heat and moves on.
Turning on the shower, Dean takes a quick piss and mindlessly brushes his teeth, glancing up and realizing by the steam that the shower's ready.  Stripping down--not entirely a punishment for once--he steps into the steamy fog and sighs at the rain of hot water against his skin before reaching for the soap and gets to business while thinking of absolutely nothing that would make this less an exercise in cleanliness, because reasons.
Climbing out, he reaches for a clean towel and starts to dry off, startled by sharp, unexpected soreness when he turns his head.  Frowning, he reaches up, fingertips finding the spot without effort; pressing gently, he catches his breath at the flare of pain and remembered heat. Crossing to the sink, Dean wipes the mirror clean of fog, staring at the blurred but unmistakable purpling hickey just above the curve of his shoulder, and higher, the purple-blue shape of Cas' teeth. Reaching up, he watches his fingers skim over the bruised skin, and the dull flicker of pain confirms it's not a hallucination.  Also (he checks), yeah, not a single goddamn sheep.
He's just about ready to think when the face in the mirror catches his attention--mirror, when did they get a mirror--and he freezes, unable to look away.  Startled green eyes watch him as he slowly reaches up, hovering uncertainly over the fading bruise on his cheek from Mark's fist and watches blankly as a thumb sweeps across it.  It's stupid, he gets that, but it's only when he sees his own wince at the low ache that it registers that the face he's looking at is his own.
Hands shaking, he traces over the pale skin--way too pale, sunlight would help a lot--following the sharp curve of his jaw, the stretch of his forehead beneath the fringe of wet hair, the tiny split at the corner of his mouth and over his lips, wet, dark hair clinging to his cheeks--he may need a haircut--but there's nothing but warm, perfectly normal flesh at every touch, no peeling, rotting horror grinning at him from the mirror and that can't be right.  Looking at his arm, he stares at the twisted ropes of scars on his inner arm, but his eyes keep darting away, taking in the firm flesh around it, tracing the building muscle up his arm, and the mirror reflects the same goddamn thing, like this is--like….
Stepping back a few steps, Dean searches frantically for the thing he saw in the mirror that day--a corpse still walking, still breathing, still living when it should be long dead--but even the ghost recedes at the sight of the thin but definitely living body, complete with fucked up scarred arm, the fading yellow remains of a sparring session with Mark, and newer purple smudges pressed into the sharp bones of his hips in the shape of Cas's fingers.
He's still trying to work out what to do next when there's a knock on the door before it opens, and even the chill air that hits him before it closes again isn't enough to penetrate. 
"'I have seen all the works that are done under the sun,'" Cas quotes softly, "'and, behold, all is vanity and like grasping the wind.'" The blue eyes drop to Dean's feet and take the scenic route back up, an ice age passing before he reaches Dean's face, raising an eyebrow.  "Not that I blame you.  I could look at you all day."
"Not," Dean grinds out, wondering how to explain or if there is a sane explanation for this, "helping."
"I brought you coffee."  Dean jerks his gaze to Cas, who is--holding a steaming cup of coffee.  And holding it out, even.  "I thought it might help."
Luckily, he recognizes Dean's decision-making capabilities aren't up to anything right now, crossing the two feet between them to put the cup in his hands before leaning back against the wall beside the sink, like he wants to consider the entire package from a new angle.  Not sure what else to do, Dean takes a drink, and it does help, or at least, gives him something to do.  
"Know thyself," Cas says quietly.  "I thought once it was because I formed your body anew that it defined the human ideal.  I've seen and known many human bodies since then, however, and none have ever compared."
"You thought…" He swallows hastily at the not-crack in his voice; this is getting ridiculous.  "You said I looked fine when I looked like a corpse."
"You're without flaw," Cas answers.  "By definition, that makes that which contains you perfect."  Tilting his head, he smiles slowly, adding in a long, appreciative once-over just in case Dean's not paying attention.  "Looking at you now, however--there's nothing to do but kneel before such in abject worship."
Why does that sound familiar?  "Did you just…" Cas's smile widens.  "Did you just quote hippofucker?"
"One of his less offensively terrible efforts," Cas concedes with a shrug.  "And at this moment, difficult to resist enacting, but needs must.  Amanda and Joe left to visit the other cabins, doubtless sharing the undeniably exaggerated story of surviving a long night listening to us have sex."
Dean blinks.
"And help Brenda in the mess, I think," Cas adds, attention obviously somewhere south of Dean's face.  "They said they'll see us tonight. Presents may be involved, they weren't entirely clear."
Dean wonders if it's just him, or this sounds like a report he's taking naked in the bathroom in front of the mirror while drinking coffee and being--looked at--by Cas.  Taking another sip, he nods; that's actually what's happening, got it.  "Patrol?"
"The snowing stopped an hour before dusk, and they appreciated it very much, though less than they would have it had happened earlier," Cas answers promptly.  "The camp continues to be alive, all the lights in the camp are now red and green, and the posts are decorated with wreathes of various levels of quality but great earnestness."
He tilts his head toward the space heater.  "That?"
"Kyle's on patrol and therefore has no need of it," Cas says reasonably.  "Mel's team arrived back an hour ago and states the others were only a few hours behind her, so everyone should be here in time for the insert winter celebration of your choice dinner, pie, and bonding event this evening in the mess."
He lowers his cup warily.  "There's gonna be singing, isn't there?"
"You'd think those who aren't Christian would have no interest in--or reason to--memorize popular holiday songs, and you'd be wrong," Cas says, tilting his head before finally remembering Dean has a face, too.  "I have perfect pitch."
He nods, taking another drink.
"My relative pitch is equally flawless, and neither are affected by my sobriety or lack thereof," he continues, and Dean doesn’t think he's imaging a slightly frantic edge to his voice.  "Only two people in this camp know what pitch is or approach understanding its importance in vocal music, and nothing is improved when vocalization is done in groups."
"Can you sing?" Dean asks suddenly; that the Host doubled as a holy choral group he knew--kind of--but the idea of Cas singing is impossible and awesome and something that has to happen. Tonight, even.
Cas's eyes narrow: that would be yes, then.  "I'm not singing."
So Cas is singing tonight, and he's already got the beginnings of a plan on how to make that happen.
"About last night--" Cas starts.
Cup frozen half-way to his mouth, he stares at Cas, who stares back as the silence goes from weird and uncomfortable to deeply uncomfortable, easing into vaguely charged and rushing past ominous to settle into goddamn portent of disaster to come.  Worse, it keeps going, and while he'd normally appreciate Cas literally unable to come up with anything to say, this isn't normally.  
"You realize," Cas says abruptly, eyes fixing on the wall behind Dean's shoulder and warning him nothing good can come of this, like there was any chance of anything else, "that it's been a very long time since the last time I--"
"You really want to go with that?" Dean bursts out incredulously, barely remembering he's holding a coffee cup and hastily setting it down on the sink.  "You gotta be kidding me!"
Cas closes his eyes, making a face like he'd do just about anything to not be here, and hey, that makes two of them.  It might be true (don't think that), but the first fucking rule of regrettable hookups is you don't say they're regrettable fucking hookups.  Jesus, someone should have broken down for Cas how it works, which is either climb out the window in shame (not recommended, especially when unexpected rose bushes make an appearance, but come on, it was fucking dark) or fake it like it's your new religion until you can get away, like a goddamn normal person.  He's almost ready to explain it himself--education is never wasted, and he's gotta man up and deal with it now--but that would be after he's calm enough to pretend he doesn't want to throw up or at least blame doing it on the whiskey.  Before and after punching something really fucking hard.
Then Cas opens his eyes, and the flat glare almost knocks him back a step.  "You…."
He waits for it, but…  "Me."
"No one is this oblivious," breathes Cas himself, without any trace of irony.  "You have a habit of undressing in front of me--sometimes while carrying on a conversation--and that would in itself be fine if I wasn't aware that habit dates from the only witnesses were your father or your brother--"
"Uh, I never fucking stripped down in front of them!" Dean exclaims, horrified.
"--and I am not your brother," Cas continues viciously, ignoring him.  "Nor is this a vessel in which biological urges have no particular meaning.  I apologize if this wasn't clear--though how you could miss it is a mystery--not only do I feel them, I've spent my entire mortal existence indulging them at every possible opportunity.  That I don't at this time is quite literally due to the subject.  Look in the mirror."
Dean asks, "What?"
"Look," Cas grates out, "in the mirror, Dean."
He does; it might actually be the safest choice in the room right now.
"Thank you," Cas says.  "Now set aside your inexplicable lack of vanity and objectively consider what exactly I've been observing in all its states of dress, undress, and on occasion, also wet.  Do we understand each other or do my masturbation habits need to be described as well?"
Dean tries to think of a response to that: for some reason, he's pretty sure sorry would do the exact opposite of help, not to mention be a huge fucking lie. "Oh."
"That's not an excuse, however.  You were somewhat drunk last night," Cas adds in a calmer voice, which is why it takes a second too long for Dean to register where this is going and stop it.  "I apologize for taking advantage of your trust last night and I hope that this won't be a source of discomfort for you or make you less comfortable in my presence." He hesitates before visibly making an effort.  "If you feel that--perhaps I should consider other arrangements to our--"
"Shut up," Dean says, and briefly acknowledges the miracle of Cas actually doing it before adding, "No."
Cas wets his lips, looking away.  "Dean--"
"You're not moving out because of last night, Jesus!" Dean interrupts.  "Why the hell would you even think--"
"I am, actually, perfectly willing--though not necessarily eager--to commit myself to a life of celibacy and unsettlingly frequent masturbation--though we will need a far more efficient water heater and maybe two at this rate--"
"Jesus Christ," Dean interjects for form's sake.  
"--as long as that life includes you," Cas finishes in a display of touchingly fucked up--something, holy shit, is this happening?  "So if you need time to--feel things--and my presence hinders that in some way, then yes, I can temporarily find other accommodations until you--stop feeling those things and I can return." He pauses, and Dean sees the flicker of fear he can't hide anymore.  "I don't--don't want anything to change.  I can't lose you, Dean."
"You won't," Dean says, ready to carve that in stone somewhere or tattoo it on Cas's body--not the time, not the time, but for the record, he can think of a few places, not the fucking time--if that gets the point across.  "Ever, Cas.  Not even on the table."
For a moment--in which Dean thinks how to subtly get rid of Cas and try that shower thing, fuck, not the time--it's almost like it's over but no, it's not, because this is Cas, and also, they're on his favorite fucking subject and it's way too late to start running.  Like the starting sequence of a horror movie, Cas tilts his head, subjecting him to--fuck his life--a mirror-perfect copy of Sam at his most earnest and talking about feelings, practically oozing sympathy and support for Dean's--feelings.  
"If it helps," Cas tells him seriously, "when sexuality and biology are in competition, biology will always win."
This isn't happening; the only world that he should have to listen to this speech is one where he both got off and feels guilty about it, and for lack of a goddamn sweatshirt being thrown, one of those at least would be true.
"Human bodies are designed to enjoy sex and aren't discriminating on how they get it; sexuality and attraction, on the other hand, are…" He pauses, making a face.  "Baffling, but one adjusts, I suppose.  Generally, there comes a point where the gender or sex of the individual providing stimulation is secondary--if that--to the desire that they keep doing it." Over…no, just a dramatic pause: this is Cas.  "I assure you, even if I'd jerked you off last night, you'd be just as heterosexual today as you were before."
He could have had Cas jerking him off last night.
Naturally brings up all the other things that can be accomplished on a couch with a willing Cas and a lot of enthusiasm, because what this conversation lacked was goddamn biology and sexuality working together to fuck up his life, so glad they joined the party.  He didn't even get off, for fuck's sake, and now he has to deal with a morning after no one should have to face on top of it, and this much is perfectly clear; whoever threw Cas's sweatshirt back on the coffee table isn't surviving to dusk.
"Yeah," he agrees helplessly.  "Got it."
"Good," Cas says, relaxing, but no, it's not over yet. "If you want to talk about it, I can give you a historical perspective of humanity's relationship with sex and lust throughout the ages.  That might give you some context on--how you may feel."  The pause is brief but ominous, and Dean can see the next question forming before his eyes and braces himself for impact.  "I should have asked this earlier; how do you feel?"
Essay question, two page minimum, and here's the subject: explain Hamlet's relationship with his dad, how life shouldn't mimic high school number three on the first day of English class, and also, his goddamn feelings. Pick up your goddamn pen and get to writing already, and by the way, you know the answer to this question, so what are you waiting for?
Dean looks at the shape of his life looking at him worriedly: not a goddamn thing, so fuck off. I got a life to start writing.  First, though: get out of the goddamn bathroom and start working on the details.
"Kind of hungry," he says honestly, grinning into the worried blue eyes and watching them clear in transparent relief.  "What's for breakfast?"
"Blueberry pancakes," Cas answers promptly, and he raises his eyebrows to remind Cas he heard what Amanda said about fruit. "A private transaction with one of the residents a few weeks ago.  I was saving them for a special occasion."
Dean knows his street prices, but he's not sure of the ounce of pot-to-dried blueberries conversion rate (or acid-to-blueberries, for that matter) and honestly, kind of doesn't want to. "Cool."  He also doesn't want to acknowledge he's naked--has been for this entire conversation--and a very important part of his future just got decided during a quite literal identity crisis in the fucking bathroom (along with hearing a patrol report and finding out Cas can sing), but that's kind of undeniable at this point.  It happens, moving on.  At least out of the bathroom.
"I'm gonna get dressed," he decides; step one to getting out of the bathroom already is clothes.
Cas makes a disappointed sound.  "If you must."
The stack of clothes on the toilet isn't a surprise; on a guess, they appeared while he was in the shower, around the time that the mirror got hung, and then Cas waited patiently in the freezing bedroom to make sure what Dean saw this time reflected at him what was actually there.  When he fit this plan (or knew there was a thing that needed a plan) into his morning between patrol, worrying about Dean's reaction to last night, and getting a game plan together for worst case scenario is anyone's guess, but of course he did.
It takes him two tries to pick up the boxers; he won't fuck up, not this time.  
Boxers accomplished, he looks at Cas--yes, he's watching, good.  "Uh, the undressing thing…."
"Please don't apologize for that, and if possible, forget I ever mentioned that particular habit." Dean sees one corner of his mouth trembling, a smile hovering behind his eyes.  "No need to think of it at all."
"Good." Tugging on the sweatpants, he pulls the t-shirt over his head and turns around.  "Need help with breakfast?"
@@@@@@
--Day 145--

Staring at the bags by the door at two hours past dawn, even Dean can't explain what's bothering him.  Amanda, not having a Cas-shaped alarm for dawn, is running late, which is giving him way too much time to have absolutely no idea what he's feeling (best guess: restless?) or why.
Cas, demonstrating his multitasking as well as his human skills, looks over the top of the open laptop--he's really wondering if Chitaqua needs to be part of the (sort of) Information Age, what's wrong with paper again?--to ask, "Do you not want to go because you feel your duty is to remain here or because you think I have some objections to you going that I'm concealing from you?  Which," he adds in the spirit of honesty and open communication (Dean assumes), "you have reason to question."
Dean looks his 'yeah, and how'.
"I have no objections to you going," Cas says, staring into his eyes.  "Does that help?"
"No."
"Then we'll start with duty and see if that provides enlightenment."  Cas eases the laptop aside--proof of Serious Conversation these days like nothing else--and considers Dean across the width of the coffee table.  "Your duty is be our leader.  That isn't synonymous with constant residency in Chitaqua.  In fact," he adds, "it would be counterproductive if you did so.  As you told me once, they need to know you.  Regular visits to Ichabod are to be encouraged.  It doesn't show any lack of faith in Amanda's abilities as a commander."
"Which weirdly enough, not something that occurred to me until now.  Thanks, Cas."
Cas doesn't roll his eyes, but he looks like maybe he wants to.  "This is still very new, and Alison and Amanda are both reassured by your regular attention.  In Amanda's case especially, since this is her first command and she assumes when you replace her, she'll be able to help the new commander adapt more quickly."
"You still haven't told her it's permanent?"  Dean asks, dropping down on the other side of the couch and giving Cas a long look.  "Why?"
"You're her commander," Cas answers annoyingly.  "That would be more your responsibility than mine."
"Don't even try that one.  You wanted her there--"
"You didn't object."
"She was my choice, but you got in before I could say anything." Cas's eyes narrow, which makes Dean's indecently early morning.  "So since it was your appointment, your responsibility.  You had a reason--you always do--so let's work on our communication skills.  Why don't you want her to know yet?"
Cas make a face, but it's mostly at himself.  "Right now all she worries about is making an excellent impression on the communities and training her students.  She doesn't think she has to impress you--in fact, your check-ins are solidifying the impression that you're observing the general progress of our tenure there, not her performance as a commander specifically--so she simply does the job asked of her to the best of her abilities without worrying if she's doing it the way you want one of your lieutenants to do it.  By the time we leave--"
"If," Dean says, just because he can.
"When," Cas says, giving him a sharp look, "she'll be used to the position, and so finding out its permanent won't lead to worrying if she's doing it the way you want her to, but instead confirm that the way she does it is correct."
Which was kind of what Dean was thinking, and probably the reason that Cas has been cagey about the subject before.  Amanda has been out of training and on duty for over two years before he got here, and there's no way she didn't pick up how Dean liked to do things back then, and if she thought he was evaluating her, she might slip into that by sheer habit.
Which is why, he assumes, Cas wants him to tell her she was commanding Ichabod; if she thought she was only Cas's choice, then she'd assume Dean would replace her with his own when he decided who he wanted.  Not bad for a former angel, Dean thinks fondly: manipulative as fuck, but using it for good.
"To return to the original subject," Cas says, obviously hoping Dean will do just that, "your visits now are necessary, and over time, should more of the people here accept our help, they'll set the pattern for interaction with them to assure them of our good intentions.  And Amanda's students need to see you observe them," he adds more slowly.  "They're only hers until training is complete, but they've been yours since they began training.  They need to know the man who will be commanding them when they're done."
"You're good," Dean admits.  "You thought about this."  
"I have," Cas agrees in satisfaction.  "Your duty is to go forth and be an example to others.  Mine," looking at the laptop with calculating eyes, "is to make Access my bitch."  It almost makes Dean feel bad for the programs that Cas will be bringing to their trembling knees.  "And also to act as your proxy in Chitaqua, in case that wasn't obvious.  Which is, if I remember correctly, the primary reason you asked me to do this."
Dean grimaces, thinking of Cas on the roof of the cabin, watching the world from behind Chitaqua's walls; a trap is a trap, no matter how it's baited.  "I feel like I'm trapping you here."
"You aren't trapping me here.  I assure you it's by my choice." The blue eyes flicker to the window, speculative. "The corruptive influence of power over a small population is addictive. I plan to institute a system of tribute soon.  Preferably of coffee."
"Glad you're enjoying yourself." Still not satisfied, he considers again not going, even though actually, Cas just removed every sane (and admittable) reason he has to do just that, which leaves--fuck his life--feelings.  
The Insert Winter Holiday You Celebrate Thing in the mess last night was more or less Dean's first real party at Chitaqua (no way in Hell he's counting the Burning of the Former Team Leaders Night), and it was pretty much what he expected.  Experience with Lisa, and more recently in Ichabod, kicked in automatically on how you do parties with significant others that were surprisingly applicable to Chitaqua's version (something like a cross between a neighborhood barbecue and a work party without kids, more weapons, about the same number of hookups but the sex wasn't necessarily illicit, and no adultery happening anywhere, especially in his and Lisa's (or his and Cas's) bedroom. Christ, some people).  
Better, even: he and Cas know everyone in Chitaqua, at no point did the inevitable 'so what do you do?' come up (much less be a loaded question with a multiple choice answer requiring careful navigation and a lot of lying), no one asked how they got together (see 'what do you do?' for reference on how that usually worked) and all the topics of conversation were shit he knew and were relevant to his life.  Sure, he might have been missing a little history, but that just made it more interesting, since a.) Cas was a fucking wizard filling in the blanks without looking like that's what he was doing (with added sarcasm), b.) his tragic fever-related memory issues explained everything and hey, he'd almost forgotten about that (irony: they've met), leading to c.) he learned things he's pretty sure this Dean never knew about and d.) things this Dean wouldn't have been told about period.  So there's that 
(Yeah, he's that fucking petty, and he's okay with that.)
More importantly, he thinks that last night was the first time Cas realized he was a hunter, and not just in name or by the will of Dean goddamn Winchester, and what that meant in Chitaqua.  Like everyone else in the room, the reason he started wasn't necessarily the reason he was still doing it, and like many of them (more than Dean would have thought), given the choice now, he'd still want to.  If visiting Ichabod taught Dean nothing else, it's that the residents of Chitaqua, by avocation (and isolation, granted), have more in common with each other--including Cas--than pretty much anyone else on earth.  And this group, for some of the same reasons, are exactly the right audience for someone whose conversational skills consists of weapons-grade sarcasm, brutal honesty, and utter bafflement with humans (that's everyone, dude), and whose store of relevant anecdotes include all of history. How everyone in this camp managed to miss it for this long is a mystery, but Dean's glad everyone's caught up on the obvious (and Jesus, Cas' mockery of Sparta was like--yeah, he wouldn't have called that about Leonidas, just saying).
Then came the other part.  
Insert Winter Holiday You Celebrate Thing was a room in which everyone was eating everything in sight, getting drunk, singing (badly), hooking up between snacks and trading guitars (they have guitars?), Zoe was holding court as Love Guru Mark II surrounded by the goddamn groupie contingent and that moment was when he realized something else.  He knows them as individuals now, sure, but sitting together like that (and a few noticeably high), the once-vague faceless memories of groups going to Cas's back in the day suddenly had names, faces, and he's their commander and he used to watch them go to Cas's for sex before patrol meetings.  He may or may not (definitely did) see a few of them in medias fornication with him.
And hey, they weren't the only ones, by the way.  Just in case the stunningly obvious was somehow missed here.
He was no longer at a fun party; he was at a fun party surrounded by Cas's (former) sex life. As Cas's official boyfriend, even.  (While Phil and Matt looked depressed in a corner, like Phil had any fucking grounds, and yeah, that would be the moment he realized exactly what he was dealing with.  Fuck Phil).  In the infirmary, after Jeffrey shot him, Cas told him that he didn't think Dean would be okay with being commander of people he knew Cas was sleeping with, and it's not that he didn't agree (for vague reasons he felt no need to examine), it's that he figured (because optimism does this shit) that he'd deal.  In retrospect, he's glad that was never put to the test, because that wouldn't have ended well even by accident, for anyone, and he's pretty sure then is nothing--and he does mean nothing--compared to what his reaction would be right now.
Beside the point, however (mostly): right now, he thinks the reason he doesn't want to go is because Cas isn't, and not just because he wants to hang out with Cas (though yeah, there's that).  It's not that he doesn't understand Cas's reasons for staying, but he also slept alone on that mattress last night while Cas slept on the couch, which is what they've been doing (when not in Ichabod or hosting sweatshirt-throwing guests), so there's no reason for him to suspect that maybe--just maybe--Cas doesn't want to go for reasons meaning Dean himself.  He's not paranoid like that.
Mostly, all he can think is why the fuck this went down in the bathroom where there was literally nothing not working against him (nudity, steam, reports, hickey, mirror, Cas singing, which didn't happen yet but will). Including Cas himself and that fucking ready-made plan to handle the tragic fallout of the Great Couch Groping Thing, and that right there is why Cas shouldn't be left alone to think, or at least doing it unsupervised.
(Absolutely true statement of fact as example: I assure you, even if I'd jerked you off last night, you'd be just as heterosexual today as you were before. Even the fucking truth is working against him.)
(Why didn't he just drop the sweatshirt on the floor?  Throw it: what was that about? Drop it on the floor, how hard would that have been?)
Sighing, he gives up; he already packed for a couple of nights, Amanda swore Alison would have a lasagna night just for him, and they have to finalize details about their presence on New Year's.  Cas would really like lasagna; he should get the recipe.
"Yeah, okay." Fixing Cas with a glare, he adds, "Next time, think you could rearrange your busy schedule to join me?  If it wouldn't be too difficult or anything."
"I'll pencil it in as a possibility," Cas deadpans, but since he doesn't go back to his laptop, Dean assumes there's something else he's got on his mind.  "There's another reason that, at least for the foreseeable future, I should remain here during your absences."
"Oh?"  He hopes he's managing 'interested' and not 'holy shit, now there's a plan in place to spend less time around me' which--Christ, stop.  That doesn't even make sense.
"We don't have a clear line of succession."
Dean takes a deep breath, trying to decide if he wants to actually hear this. "Cas--"
"Considering the events that occurred after Kansas City--that being an effective coup--it's clear that one needs to be established.  We need at least three people who can take over should you be disabled in some way that requires more than temporary oversight of the camp. Just as importantly, if I'm unable to fulfill my duties--or killed--they can take my place."
"No one," Dean says flatly, "can do that."
Cas rolls his eyes this time, because he's like that.  "I have potential candidates--"
"That part, I like.  Let's hear 'em."
"Vera, Joseph, Amanda, Melanie, Alicia, and Kamal.  Not necessarily in that order--"
"Dude, I know you; that's exactly the order you mean."
"That doesn't," Cas says stiffly, "mean it has to be yours.  Amanda might be a better choice, but she's needed where she is, and Ichabod's too new, and she's our only instructor.  Later--"
"Do they know?"
"Not yet," Cas answers, even more stiffly.  "Your approval, in this case, is a requirement."
"I like it--one change, though."  Leaning his head on his hand.  "If I go down, my first choice is you."
It's comforting to know Cas can still miss the completely and totally obvious to everyone in the known world.  Or Chitaqua and five trading partner communities, anyway.  
"Yeah, I should have said something," Dean continues without any intention of being believed.  "But I was worried about your performance--you know, wanting to be a good lieutenant and everything, so--"
"Dean."
"If I'm disabled or killed, you'll be the one who steps up, just like you did before, but at least this time you'll know about it," Dean says.  "Two times now, Cas, it's been close.  We can't risk what happened when Dean died happening again, you're right about that much.  He took everyone who knew what to do when he went after Lucifer; we're not making that mistake this time."
"Dean--"
"Okay, injured, fever, out of my mind, whatever," because it wasn't like talking about his own death and the end of the world was something he was interested in doing.  "That's gonna happen again.  Me not being here?  It's happening now.  We learned how to do this together--and we're still doing that--which is pretty convenient, come to think.  We're gonna teach them everything we've learned, and we make sure they know what it is we do and what we don't."
Cas leaned back against the couch, blue eyes thoughtful.  "We aren't anyone's private army."
"And that includes Chitaqua's leadership."  He blows out a breath.  "It's not just about Chitaqua anymore.  Ichabod and the other towns are our responsibility; they don't have time for us to have a crisis of leadership, and they can't afford for us to have a change in policy.  That goddamn fever…."  It was just weirdly good luck, too, that everyone thought Dean was banging Cas then.  Like, the stupidest good luck ever.  "They know you're my second and they answer to you just like they do to me; all we're doing is making sure that everyone--and I mean everyone--knows you're also my successor."
"If I agree," Cas says, "can we end this depressing conversation? Or at least supplement it with alcohol and a soundtrack?  Something in emo, perhaps?"
"Blues," Dean says firmly; boybands, fine, he can roll with it, but there are lines.  "Almost done: if we go south--shut up," Cas shuts his mouth with a disgruntled look, "we need two people ready to take over in our absence, and I'd like a third for backup."
"Vera--"
"And who won't coup us in our absence," Dean says seriously, but Cas's expression tells him he failed at keeping a straight face.  "On the other hand: if she doesn't like who we leave, she might coup them, so….what about putting Kyle and Cynthia in charge?  Give it two days and vive la revolution and the inevitable two casualties that result, but that happens in war."
"I feel as if perhaps my--incorrect--concerns regarding Cynthia when she was on James's team have influence you unduly."  He wets his lips, and Dean watches the flicker of pink way too intently before catching himself just as Cas adds, "You were correct regarding my ambivalence--and distrust--of the other members of the camp due to the actions of a few."
"I'm glad to hear it," Dean tells him, bracing an elbow on the back of the couch.  "Growing as a person, all that.  Good job, Cas."
"Or not," Cas says with a bright, malicious smile.  "At least as it applies to this room.  As I was saying--"
"I don't like her," Dean states.  "And I don't trust her."
He watches Cas debate how to phrase what he's pretty sure is coming next.  "If it's because I don't--"
"That would be the reason, yeah."  Cas makes a face.  "Give me a reason I should."
"Other than the fact you shouldn't allow yourself to be influenced by…" And that look again. "Just because we don't get along should have no bearing on your relationship with her."
"I'd love to know why not."  Cas straightens, and yeah. "Get up here."
Cas hesitates before joining him on the couch--the other side, but still--folding himself into the corner to look at Dean blankly.  
"I won't put her--or anyone--in the field if I don't think I can trust them to watch each other's backs," he says, leaning his head on one hand. "I'm going on faith with most of 'em, yeah, but Cynthia already made one thing clear; she won't watch yours."
"You don't know that--"
"We both know that," Dean interrupts.  "She set up her team leader to fail when she was on James' team; that alone would have had her kicked off the patrol teams for good, and she's lucky she didn't get a ten day ration pack and a twenty mile drive to anywhere but here.  But I wouldn't have risked her on a team in the first place--much less put her on James'--if I'd known there was any chance at all she was one of the ones at your cabin that night.  Cas, look at me."  Reluctantly, Cas looks up, eyes unreadable.  "If I ever find out she was there, the best she can hope for is that she gets a knife and twenty-four hours to get out of Kansas before I go hunting.  And everyone in this camp will know exactly why."
Cas stills, searching his face for a long moment before sitting back.  "You mean that."
"Yeah, I do."  He doesn't need to say what they both know; Cynthia will survive exactly as long as it takes Amanda to find her, and that'll be less than twenty-four hours whether she's on this side of the border or not.  Thing is, even that's the best case scenario; right now, he doesn't think he can shoot someone in cold blood two years after the fact for a crime they failed to commit, no matter how much he might want her dead, but six months ago, he never would have even thought to ask the question.  "Joe," he says, deciding a return to the original subject is in order before he has to decide just how sure he is of his current answer.  "Vera and Joe, Mel and Alicia as backup since yeah, we need Amanda at Ichabod.  What do you think?"
To his relief, Cas goes with it.  "They work well together, and between them, they can keep the patrol schedule stable and regular contact with the border and the communities we are protecting. Joseph is already our representative to the alliance, and all the mayors know him, and by the time we leave, they'll be familiar enough with Vera to be comfortable with the temporary change in leadership."
"Unless she coups us," Dean offers, and has the satisfaction of seeing Cas's faint smile.  "We need to be here for Amanda to finish her first class and get them integrated--introduce them around, get them on the schedule--"
"Amanda gave me the list of recruits with a provisional evaluation of their potential," Cas interrupts, reaching for his laptop and tapping a few keys before turning it toward Dean.  "Barring any unforeseen difficulties--"
"…is this the schedule for the next six months?" Dean asks blankly, squinting at the screen.  "You got them in already?"
"They will have their adjustment period here before we assign some of them permanently to the camp we're building in Ichabod, per our agreement with Alison," Cas answers didactically.  "Two of the current districts and those communities will be assigned as their routes, and we can begin, if you wish, to approach more of the communities.  By then, Alison believes that our reputation will have spread enough they won't immediately hide from us or assume we're attempting to conquer them."
"I like starting on the least terrifying foot," Dean agrees, scanning the list.  He recognizes some of the names from Amanda's class are already listed, awesome, but….  "Okay, wait, who is Person20?  We're only getting--"
"I forgot to tell you," Cas interrupts so casually that he's immediately suspicious.  "Amanda also reported that she has sufficient recruits to begin a second class when this one is done."
Startled, Dean looks at the patrol schedule again.  "When? Why didn't she tell me?" 
"I told her I would.  Approval has been granted by Ichabod's council for us to recruit ten to a maximum of twenty of Ichabod's residents per class, provided that Chitaqua compensates for the town's loss of labor with a proportional increase in our own for the town," Cas answers placidly.  "As that was reasonable and consummate with the original terms, I agreed and told Joe that would be among the terms when our residence in Ichabod is officially made permanent and we begin formation of our second base there."
Oh.  "Okay, so about ten to twenty per class."  Dean tries to remind himself that isn't much, that they need an army, but despite himself, excitement bubbles up, irrepressible.  He'd been honest when he told Alison one made a difference; anything more is just icing.  Forty to eighty in a year, though, is a hell of a lot of icing.  Maybe get some other communities to think about joining up.  Maybe…he cut himself off.  "Sweet."
"Amanda also asked permission, pending the results of this class, to raise the number she and Mark could train in the next group," Cas adds, turning the laptop back around and tapping the touchpad.  "I gave provisional approval, with the final decision when I've evaluated her first group of recruits."
"Why?" Dean thinks back to the people coming from the other towns and felt another frisson of excitement he tried desperately to tamp down.  "So next class, how many does she want?"
"Fifty."
Dean blinks.  "Fifty?"
"Yes, fifty." Cas frowns at the laptop.  "She sent a tentative list of those who had spoken to her already, but she anticipates there may be more as word of what we're doing in Ichabod spreads beyond those communities we are contracted to.  Traders seem to be spreading the word."
Dean does the math; about two months, twenty more; three after that, they get fifty.  Jesus, that's--  "Fifty people want to sign up for the war on evil?"
"No," Cas says, still frowning at the screen and ignoring Dean's surprise.  "More than fifty requested consideration, but she felt fifty was the maximum number that she and Mark could handle at this time. Did you know the largest single attack on a town by a group of Croats was ten?"
"No."  Scooting down the couch, he turns the laptop, trying to interpret the endless columns of data and Cas's personal code.  "Cas--"
"None were ever accompanied by demons; those tended to be discrete, though equally destructive."
"Yeah, I bet."  Dean scrolls right--that is a lot of columns--then goes back and to the top. "Person42?  How--"
"I wasn't aware there was footage of the attack."
Crap, he forgot about that.  "Yeah, that. Walter--"
"Cameras, attack vector, I heard."  Something in Cas's voice gets his full attention.  "After an attack, the towns' patrol leaders meet to discuss the details and plan for future attacks, and Manuel and Teresa asked Tony to accompany him to this one, as well as Amanda and two teams of her students who participated in the defense of the town.  Despite the fact that Manuel had no history of lying, they didn't believe--the statistics."
"They showed them the footage."  That's why Tony was there.  "Cas, I didn't know--"
"They wouldn't have," Cas interrupts.  "Except it was the only way to convince them--the largest single attack that they know of on a town consisted of ten Croats.  Out of six hundred residents, three survived; that's the only reason anyone knows that town even existed."
Dean nods, licking his lips.  "The town…."
"There's nothing left of it," Cas says.  "It was less than twenty miles from the eastern Kansas border, and proximity to an uninfected state tends to get a very thorough response from the military, even if it's after the fact.  However, that's beside the point."  Dean raises his eyebrows; that sounds like one hell of a not point.  "There were four hundred and thirteen Croat bodies recovered from Ichabod."
Dean checks his nod.  "A lot, yeah, overkill."
"And four confirmed demon deaths."  Cas takes a breath.  "They didn't know demons could be killed."  Dean assumes his expression conveys his interest and not wondering what the point is.  "Fifty Croats is enough to quarantine a city; the spread of infection is so fast there are no survivors because we can't get to them before they're infected or dead.  Fifty active Croats means ten times that number are infected already, and half of them are at stage two and infecting others without even knowing it."
"Ichabod had quarantine procedures, they knew what they were doing--"
"They did, which makes a difference," Cas says with a half-exasperated, half-fond smile.  "They were able to implement best case scenario; Ichabod's patrol was able to concentrate on protecting the survivors and getting them to safety and then do a full and thorough sweep of all streets and the surrounding area as well as isolate those potentially infected immediately.  Their procedures were flawless, but generally, implementing them requires there be time to leave the immediate fight for their lives and those around them to establish a perimeter inside which procedure could be followed."
"So we helped with that."
"The timeline Manuel gave to the rather stunned patrol leaders of the other towns shows a hard perimeter was established within one hour of the first--and very unexpected--attack on the north fields, which Amanda's students were instrumental in assisting them form and defend.  Kamal's team began initial sweeps, allowing Ichabod's patrol to defend the survivors and get them to safety.  The appearance of another group of Croats two hours after that technically broke the perimeter line, yes, but we were warned, and none of them survived their arrival at Second Street in any case."
"You and Amanda killed them all," Dean agrees, because yeah, he does have a copy of the footage and fuck the blizzard for electricity rationing, he's gotta see this.  
"Two teams of students helped under our supervision," Cas says, and Dean makes a note to steal more blankets because he's watching that goddamn tape without heat or lights if he has to.  Soon.  "Five hours after the initial attack, all Croats were dead, the infected identified or in isolation, and the casualties totaled sixty-three, not including the human infiltrators, the majority of which occurred within the town square."  There's the briefest hesitation.  "You were responsible for the fact there were survivors at all."
Dean nods shortly; they really should return to the subject, which was….Cas's fucking spreadsheet, right.  Picking up the laptop from the coffee table, he stares at it until a column finally resolves into a list of names.  "Right, so--you said you're planning for a year?"
"Six months," Cas says beside him as Dean continues to scroll, frowning as he reaches the end: Person01, Person39, Person86, eighty six, he guesses they could get that many in the next year.  "Dean--" Abruptly, Cas pushes his hand away, minimizing the spreadsheet.
"Hey, I was looking at--"
"This," Cas says, opening a new spreadsheet--how many does Cas have?  Not a question he wants answered--and list of names that aren't PersonNumber.  "Read it," Cas says, sitting back.
Glancing at Cas warily, he reaches for the touchpad and starts scrolling.  And scrolling.  And scrolling.  "Uh--"
"The other towns are interested in--our method."
Dean removes his fingers from the touchpad, staring at the names.  "Cas--"
"A town of one thousand individuals survived an attack of four hundred and thirteen Croats and six demons with only sixty-three casualties.  And Chitaqua's leader, with only two guns and insufficient ammunition and still recovering from a fever that almost killed him less than three months before, stopped what would have been a wholesale slaughter of every living being in the daycare," Cas continues softly.  "As well stopped a human sacrifice from being performed in the courtyard of Ichabod.  Alone."
Distantly, he notices his hands are beginning to tremble.  "How many?"
"Four hundred and thirty-eight individuals from the trade alliance approached Amanda and requested consideration to join Chitaqua before the blizzard."  Dean jerks his gaze to Cas, who grins back.  "They heard we were going to win this, and they want in."

--Day 146--

Alison confirmed the number ("So far, that is; snow's been slowing them down"), adding laconically that Kamal's team was helping Ichabod to get on fixing up the abandoned buildings for residency due to the influx of people from the other towns coming for basic and leaving (reluctantly) to tell everyone and their goddamn dog that there was a war to fight and a world to win, or something like that, because Mark apparently has completely unexpected powers of oratory, and being Mark, used them for evil.
"Inspiring," Alison said thoughtfully, glancing at Teresa.  "I was almost ready to sign up for Dean Winchester's Army of Light myself."
"Tell me that's not a quote."
Teresa, goddamn her, held up a notepad.  "I got the text here.  Also, you're a candle in the wind."
Dean nodded blankly.  "Give me a minute.  I'm gonna kill Mark."
Parking the jeep, Dean sighs, aware that Kamal--who totally isn't his escort, he just needed something from his cabin--is looking at him and trying not to grin.  "If you tell Cas--" he starts, knowing it's doomed to failure, but he's gotta try.
"Won't say a word.  I have to get Chuck to print up a few copies of the speech first," Kamal answers, sliding out of the jeep before Dean can stop him.  Waving his spiral notebook, he makes off as Dean stares out the windshield in appalled silence.  
Eventually, he realizes he's got to get out of the jeep or risk freezing to death, which doesn't sound bad right now but Cas will find a way to resurrect him--impossible whatever--just to kill  him again if he tries, so he slides out, tucking his keys in his pocket and carefully leaving the garage as fast as humanly possible in case there's something to hear.  Sure, there's snow on the ground and it's below zero, but this is Chitaqua, and his militia is fearless and like sex, which means come snow, rain, or apocalypse, they will get their orgasm.  
Tramping down the red and green decorated trail of lights toward the huddle of lit cabins, he feels something uncoiling in him, relaxing after the morning in Ichabod catching up on anything else he needed to know, checking in with Alison and Teresa about New Year's and leaving Amanda to arrange the details, and saying goodbye to everyone (and aware, suddenly, of how many unfamiliar eyes followed him around the training ground, people stopping in the middle of practice, appearing out of nowhere to cluster around the fence to stare at him as he started back across the field to his jeep with Kamal on his heels).  

They heard we were going to win this, and they want in.

Amanda and Alison's matching smirks carried all the unspoken certainty in the world that his real reason for leaving a day earlier than planned was getting laid by his boyfriend, which nice thought, but the truth is much, much less sexy; he missed Cas and wanted to go home.  The slowly growing anticipation followed him since he got up this morning, and even though it was late afternoon before he was able to leave, he didn't even consider waiting another day.
Dean's still thinking about that when he's up the porch steps and almost runs into the door, grinning as he impatiently pushes it open and is immediately bathed in a spill of warm yellow light.  Going inside, he abruptly realizes he's got the attention of the two--two?--occupants of the couch, one of whom puts down her coffee cup and gets to her feet almost immediately.
"Hey, Dean," Vera says, grinning at him.  "So, ready to pack for a trip south?"
Cas gets him coffee, apparently experiencing a brand new high when it comes to mood, that being really, really good, and Vera looks after him fondly before turning her attention back to Dean (curled up in the armchair across the coffee table and trying to look really excited about this totally unexpected turn of events, because he is, really) sipping from her cup and radiating more good will and contentment than Dean feels anyone living in an Apocalypse should ever be feeling.  Which, he thinks, taking the cup from Cas and staring at the contents, is probably kind of unreasonable, and also, what the hell.
"Sorry for the delay," she says, giving Cas a grin as he joins her on the couch.  "The blizzard hit us right before we got to Tennessee.  We holed up in an abandoned house and waited it out."  She sighs dramatically, leaning her head back on the armchair.  "Slept almost half a day when we finally got here."
"Not almost," Cas corrects her, looking amused. "You said give you two hours for a full report.  Fourteen hours later, you finally decided to give it."
"I had to shower," she half-protests with a laugh.  "And eat something."
"You made me get you food."
"Maybe I needed more food," she shoots back.  "Maybe I was surprised we have so much food. I didn't know you could cook, either.  Which by the way, when did you learn to cook?"
"Practice," Dean says shortly, taking a mouthful of coffee at the way Cas and Vera look at him.  Swallowing before he burns all the skin off his tongue and spreading the pain down his throat, he tries a smile. "It's good to see you."
That must have sounded convincing--and it's true, he thinks, so why wouldn't it be?--because she smiles back.  "Thanks.  Cas said you would be gone until tomorrow, but if you want my report now--"
"I'll get it tomorrow," Dean answers, taking another drink.  "It's pretty late and it was a hell of a drive."
Vera shakes her head.  "I mean, I was gonna make dinner for Cas, and I was gonna invite you.  I'm a good cook.  Now that we have food that can be good, anyway."
Later, Dean will have no idea how this happened.
"Long drive," he says, shaking his head and adding in a yawn for good measure and getting two sets of raised eyebrows for his trouble.  "I'm gonna go to bed, so you two go have fun," which earns him Cas's undivided attention and Vera's eyes widening, oh God what, "and I'll sleep."  Standing up, he starts toward the bedroom before remembering that it's a death zone of cold, but strangely enough, he's okay with that.  Though, and now he notices this, the mattress is gone from the floor.
"Nate and Lee fixed the insulation problem in the bedroom," Cas offers to his back, which Dean responds to with a glance back and a thumbs-up.  Right.  The bedroom's okay; glad Cas got finally inspired to get that shit fixed. "Also, the grout in…in the bathtub, it was leaking, did you want to try and do it yourself again?"
Dean wonders if you can smile hard enough to sprain something.  "No, it's fine.  Great." It's not like Cas has a choice here; if Dean can't get the job done, outsourcing is where it's at to fulfill his--cabin needs, okay, stop.  He really needs to get out of this room, oh look, bedroom door.  "Sorry, would love to talk, but--seriously, long couple of days.  Tomorrow okay?"
"All right," Cas starts.
"Good to have you back," Dean says to Vera before Cas can add anything, sliding in the door.  "See you bright and early!  Or you know, sometime this--year, next year, no rush."
"Night," Vera says, sounding confused, and Dean waves one more time before closing the door firmly behind him.
Castiel's always enjoyed watching the stars, glittering points of light in an endless sky, and never misses the rare nights that the overcast lightens enough to see them.  Before he Fell, he never spent time simply observing them, and he sometimes wonders if before he was confined within the limits of this form, how much attention he paid to them.
Leaning back against the side of the cabin, Castiel plays with one of the joints that Melanie thoughtfully left pre-rolled for him and tries to put his thoughts in some kind of order.  
"Mind some company?" Vera says from the steps of her small porch a few feet away.  He tilts his head to look at her, the easy smile that means the offer is genuine; she won't be offended if he prefers solitude.  At his nod, she comes down the steps, two bottles swinging from one hand and two extremely plaid blankets over one arm.  "I figured I'd give you half an hour before I stopped pretending I didn't know you were sitting out here and you entered 'cry for help' territory."
"How did you--"
"You took that blankets from Amanda's bed," she says, looking down at the triple layer of wool folded up beneath him before spreading the blankets over him. "Threw it out the window while I was in the bathroom, right?"
He sighs as she pulls up a corner and ducks beneath, tucking in the end.  "I won't ask how you know that."
"Since the answer is that you're really distracted, you don't need to," she answers, tucking closer against his side and drawing up her knees comfortably before offering him one of the bottles.  "Last ones I got from Joe.  What did Amanda do to get two bottles of that shit you call alcohol?"
"Dean named it Eldritch Horror," he offers, tapping the bottle against his knee.  "I have no idea, but I assume she blackmailed Dean for them, and now I think I can guess how it became so popular.  Find out what it was at the first opportunity."
"Since you stole her from me and sent her into exile, that may be a while." Taking a drink, she considers.  "Eldritch Horror.  I do remember tentacles the last time I had that."
"That was rope, and a valuable lesson in keeping a sharp object in range."  She smirks in memory.  "Excellent knots, by the way."
"I have skills," she says, bumping her shoulder against his companionably.  "So what's up?"
Twisting off the top off the bottle, he takes a drink.  "For centuries, the finest beers were created in monasteries.  There were some that were less famous for their piety than their breweries."
Vera studies her bottle as if she's never seen it before.  "Who invented beer, anyway?  Adam?"
"Eve."  Vera snickers. "No, truly.  When she was with child, Adam worried she would injure herself tending their fields, and while their animals needed attention, that was not enough to fill the hours of the day."
"So she invented beer."
"Only after she invented the wheel, sliced bread, and the cure for the common cold."  Vera laughs softly.  "I see my veracity is in question."
"I would never doubt the word of an angel."
"I'm not actually sure regarding the origin of beer," Castiel admits, taking another drink.  "I watched your houses become villages and your villages become towns and your towns grow into cities. I watched all of your greatest accomplishments as you spread across this world, and I watched all of your most horrific atrocities.  I thought I understood the nature of humanity from my observations, yet somehow, I missed the invention of beer."  
"I don't know," Vera says after a moment. "Building civilization and the creation of beer; they don't seem comparable."
"I don't think anyone who has ever drank a beer can truly believe that," he tells her.  "At least, until they tasted wine."
"Whiskey."
"Vodka."
"Tequila," Vera counters, then hesitates.  "Maybe."
"I'm still debating its value in the greater scheme of creation when not in margarita form."  She murmurs agreement, looking up at the sky when she takes her next drink, revealing the pure curve of her throat, dark skin gleaming faintly in the thin, chill light, locks of hair pulled up in a messy pony tail.  When she's not on duty and she lets it down, they nearly reach her waist.
"How long does that take?" he says curiously.  She turns her head, giving him an inquiring look.  "Your hair."
"It used to take hours," she answers, lowering the bottle.  "When--before, I'd go to my sister and she did it for me.  After she got her license, she talked me into trying this because I was a tenderhead--" She grins at him, reaching up to touch her scalp.  "Hated having my hair braided, hurt like hell and it took forever, so when I started college, I went for short and easy.  But I liked the look and so I kept it.  I didn't think I paid that much attention until…." Her gaze drops to her knees.  "After, there was no one to do it, and I thought about just cutting it all off.  I could rock a shaved head."
"You could."
"But--I just couldn't do it."  Vera's gaze grows distant.  "I sat down with the scissors, and then thought of how Merry did it when I watched her in the mirror and started there."  She sighs.  "My sister was a pro; she'd just bought her own place a few months before all this started.  When someone asks, I teach them to do it like she did it, and it feels like something of her is still here.  I remember how she'd part my hair and how she'd work on each lock and remind me about proper hair care while she trimmed the ends, and for a second, I'm still sitting in her salon after hours and just talking about anything and everything."  She cocks her head, studying him for a moment. "I could teach you. Your hair's just long enough to pull it off."
"How would I look?" he asks, curious.
Her smirk widens. "Hilarious."  Reaching up, she runs her fingers through his hair, and Castiel closes his eyes under the affectionate touch.  "Okay, I gotta ask.  My hair?"
"Life lived in quantum," he answers, thinking of Alison.  "Infinity in its potential.  You'll like Alison very much.   We share meandering and confusing conversation when we have insomnia, which you've always had an inexplicable fondness for."
"How long was I gone anyway?" she says in mock-bewilderment.
"Too long," he answers honestly, surprising them both.  Looking at her, he wonders why he didn't tell her this when she arrived.  "I missed you."
Turning the bottle between her hands, she considers him before smiling slowly.  "Okay, you're forgiven for kidnapping my roommate."
"Despite the plethora of potential options--who seem to number in the legion--she's between partners at this time," he says, turning back to study the walls of the cabin in front of them.  "She might require company to talk about her feelings.  You should consider visiting her and doing that.  I'm sure she'd be grateful."
He can feel her fixed gaze.  "Wow," she says finally, taking a drink.  "Talk about feelings?"
"Human things," he explains.  "You have feelings and they seem to cause--problems. Talking about them sometimes helps, though occasionally you're simply very confused and wonder how on earth you can feel things in multiples; it's exhausting.  And contradictory."
Vera nods slowly.  "The person feeling or the person listening?"
"How do you tell the difference?" he asks in bewilderment. 
"Yeah, that's what I thought."  One foot nudges his.  "Drunk we can't do in this weather, but high we can.  Light 'em up."
Relieved, he takes out his lighter, offering her the first drag when it's successfully lit before taking one for himself.  "One is my current limit," he says after watching the thick, fragrant smoke curl upward before dissolving into the cold night air.
"Dean?"
"My tolerance," he admits, passing it back to her.  "Dean neither asks nor expects me to curtail any activity as long as it doesn't interfere with my duties and poses no risk to…what we're trying to do."
"The mission, the war, this camp," she agrees, smoke trickling from between her lips with every word.  "Your life.  He was pretty upset when we talked."
Castiel stills, joint halfway to his lips and gives her a narrow look.  "You gave him the records you kept on me."
"Yeah, in case you needed medical--"
"You reviewed them with him in detail, or there's no possible way he would have jumped to that particular page I saw him reading with Alicia."
She snorts.  "Cas, he pulled rank and ordered me to hand them over once I cleared him for limited duty and made me walk him through every goddamn procedure and why.  Three hours of a Dean Winchester interrogation, I was giving up the bong I made in high school out of a gourd Mom grew in the garden for decoration and how I threw up the first time I took 'shrooms my sophomore year in college." She shakes her head, expression baffled.  It was--how does he do that?"
"He made me admit I doubted my Father when I was still a member of the Host and visit a prostitute for sex I wasn't interested in having.  As well as rebel, Fall, and become extremely interested in patrol schedules, mapmaking, spreadsheets, and functional architectural designs for the average militia camp."  Castiel takes a long drag, almost wishing now he brought another one.  "I should tell you one day about a very enlightening moment under a log during a rain of blood and various amphibians.  It explains so much about humanity.  And mortal life, for that matter."
"Or," she says, taking the joint back, "you could tell me what you're trying to avoid talking about feeling and sitting out here until I came out to make you?" She shrugs at his frown.  "Just a thought."
"We could talk about Amanda's loneliness as well," he says venomously, finishing the bottle before he thinks better of it.  "Should we flip a coin?"
"Second time you mentioned her in one conversation," she observes neutrally, eyes sharp.  "That's a record."  
He stares down at the joint between his fingers, tip burning brightly inches from his fingers. 
"After you finished training her, you avoided her," Vera continues, a ripple of remembered anger in her voice.  I mean, more than you did everyone you weren't fucking, which is saying something.  It was pretty noticeable.  She never said anything, but I always wondered about that."
He swallows.  "I don't pretend there's any excuse for my actions--"
"I didn't ask for one," she interrupts.  
"Your group--I didn't expect someone like her.  Or like Mark, for that matter, but she--"
"Got your attention," Vera finishes for him, nodding.  "Yeah, also noticeable.  The ways of Castiel are like the ocean. Unfathomable."
The ocean, again.  Blowing out the smoke more slowly, he passes her the joint.  "I was one of Dean's first instructors for hunters.  To do that, I had to be taught by as many hunters as possible, so I could pass on their accumulated knowledge."
"That explains a lot." Taking the last drag, she offers the glowing butt before putting it out when he shakes his head.  "Heard some things at Gloria's.  So this is that past that I'm on need to know only basis with."
"You didn't ask Gloria?"  Or Amy, which is not something he wants confirmed if he can help it.
"If all I wanted was information, sure."  She shrugs, playing with her empty bottle.  "Since I wanted you to tell me, that would be no."
"Oh."  He tries and fails to think of what to say to that.  "Dean taught me first, but when we founded Alpha, another hunter there took charge of my continued instruction.  She came from a family that had been hunters since before the birth of Christ." He tilts his head.  "Even before the written word."
"Jesus." Vera is quiet for a few moments.  "You knew the family?"
"I knew the first hunter of her line," he answers, remembering.  "She was the only child of her parents.  She was born to them late in their lives, and her mother couldn't carry another child to term.  They feared for her when they died, what would become of her without brothers or male relatives to offer her protection.  They also worried about her keeping watch over their flock of sheep at night, but it was unavoidable as her father grew weaker.  One night she was there alone and a demon attacked."
"What happened?"
"She prayed."  He feels himself smiling.  "By a very loose interpretation of 'pray' while she was engaged in single combat with a demon armed with only a shepherd's crook and a strong sense of personal affront.  She couldn't possibly win," he adds more quietly.  "She also didn't particularly care."
"And you heard her."
He shrugs.  "We had responded to others who called for our help, and the first hunters had already begun to spread throughout the world to protect humanity.  There were enough to assure the skills would be passed to the generations that would follow, but--"
"You heard her."
"She prayed for me.  It was impossible to ignore."  Beside him, Vera goes still, then abruptly, breaks into peals of startled laughter.  "I don't see why you find that amusing."
"You so do," she says on a gasp, forehead braced against her knees.  Shaking herself, she straightens, chuckling more quietly.  "Was that the first time it ever happened?"
"Yes. How did you--"
"The way you said it," she says, laughing again before adding, "The way you look now.  I just--it was a surprise, huh?"
"Yes," he admits finally, ignoring Vera's muffled laughter.  "Our names were known to many humans then, so how she knew it wasn't of any particular interest.  Why she called for me, however--after I smited the demon and calmed and blessed the herd with superior wool--" he pauses for Vera to make a strangled sound, "--I asked her why she called me."
"And she said?"
"I was the only one of those whose names she could remember that hadn't within memory smited a person, city, or country in my Father's name."  Vera leans forward to stare at him, eyes wide.  "She wanted--keep in mind this was in a language no one actually speaks anymore, so my translation leaves something to be desired--to try for a messenger slightly less bloodthirsty in case they took offense at her request for distracting them from great works for something so small."  He sighs, leaning back against the chilly side of the cabin.  "I never realized what a terrible reputation the Host had on earth.  I suppose it makes sense from the point of view of humanity; dispensing justice in our Father's name tends to be a situation in which smiting something is a given."
"Right."  Vera sounds intrigued.  "Except you."
"Oh, I smited on command," he answers, frowning at her widening smile.  "Just not often, due to location. Humanity had yet to spread out and the population was extremely small.  The garrisons that were assigned to a particular area handled any problems that might arise, and called in others if it was beyond them.  The most popular were those with a great deal of potential activity and positions in those were highly sought.  The garrison I was assigned to was less--active."
"You were in the boondocks."
"No, the boondocks were urban centers compared to where I was generally stationed."  Vera's grin widens.  "Her home fell within the responsibilities of my garrison, and so I answered her."
"You were bored."
"Angels have no concept of boredom," he corrects her.  "I was occupied at all times with contemplating my Father's love, the beauty of earth and--"
"Bored."
"--the perfection of the amoeba, but a distress call took precedence, of course."  He ignores her snicker.  "She invited me to meet her parents, which was novel enough that I accepted, and I healed her father's arthritis and her mother's cataracts, and I asked her father that she be given into my care for a year and a day, to teach her to be a hunter, and for that time, their family would be protected and their livestock and crops cared for without need for her labor.  He agreed."
Vera raises an eyebrow.  "Did she?"
"Interestingly, that question is one I didn't think would be a problem," he answers, mouth quirking. "Eventually, she agreed, though it must be admitted, I had no idea being chosen by an angel for great work was a debatable point then.  I should have remembered that," he adds thoughtfully. "It would have helped a great deal with Dean."
"And your garrison was okay with that?"
Castiel tips his head back, wondering how to explain.  "What she said--about my Brethren on earth--was true, in a sense.  History was being created, and those garrisons had responsibilities were far greater than mine.  Great work was being done in my Father's name, and--"
"No time for a girl and her sheep."  Vera cocks her head.  "She wasn't important enough to make history."
"In this case, that was to her advantage," he answers.  "When I requested permission of my garrison commander, I had already looked forward and back in time, and I was able to assure them that her life had no particular significance in my Father's plan; they couldn't see her at all."  He tilts his head at Vera's sour look.  "I knew they wouldn't deny me permission then.  I was assigned to that garrison on the edges of humanity's reach because I was only foot soldier of the Host.  They knew my existence had no particular significance, either, so I was in appropriately insignificant company."
Vera winces, looking away.  "Ouch."
"I didn't mind, I assure you.  So for a year and a day," he continues, "I trained her as my Brethren had trained the others who would become hunters, and when another hunter entered the edges of the territory assigned to my garrison, I brought him to her, and ordered him to teach her all that he knew.  Unlike her," he adds, "he didn't argue my right to do so."
Vera snorts.  "Scared him to death?"
"After Amieyl, it seemed wiser to be proactive," he agrees, looping an arm around his knees under the blanket and pulling them closer.  "After the year was done, I offered to return him to wherever he wanted to go, but as Amieyl wished to stay with her parents, he did as well, and I blessed their union and left them to their work."
Vera bites her lip, obviously thinking as the silence stretches out between them before asking, "Did you ever see them again or was that not allowed?"
"All her life."  He looks into the darkness.  "But I only came to her four more times, each at her request.  On the deaths of her parents, together, as they had requested of me when I offered them a gift for a year of their daughter's life; the birth of her first child, a daughter that she asked me to bless and to give her name; the death of her husband, to see him burned and his soul claimed by a reaper who would take him home to rest; and at her death, surrounded by her children and grandchildren and the first great-grandchild, to give that child my blessing and her name, so it would continue to be spoken by man after her death, and a promise that it always would be, until the end of Time.  When the reapers came, I sent them away, and took her to rest in my Father's fields forever myself."
She leans against him, and he sees her surreptitiously wiping her eyes, giving him a glare when she sees him watching.  "Don't even," she says flatly, sniffling audibly. "So this Amieyl was the ancestor of your instructor?  Did you tell her?  What'd she say?"
"I didn't tell her," he answers, shrugging at Vera's frown.  "There was no reason to do so."
"You trained the first of her line and you didn't think that was important?"
"My purpose when we met was to learn everything I could to train hunters," he explains, feeling unsettled.  "What I knew of her family was irrelevant."
"You don't think she'd want to know?"  Castiel hesitates, not sure how to explain, and Vera's eyes narrow.  "You were still an angel then. When you met your instructor."
"Yes," he answers with a sinking feeling.  "It was the primary reason she agreed to train me.  She could teach me much more quickly than a human because I could heal immediately and so she didn't have to be concerned with injury."
Vera hisses between her teeth. "I don't even want to think about what that means."  Then, after a moment, she says, surprised, "Your training us--that came from her?"
"From her and Dean, as well as the other hunters who agreed to join Alpha," he answers.  "Dean was the original architect of the training model, but she perfected it.  Dean's training came from his father, not his mother, so he didn't have the advantage of generations of practice training hunters from early childhood.  Before the Apocalypse started, Amy was already engaged in teaching the younger members of her family as well as her foster daughter, so she had very recent experience as well."
"Huh."  Vera nods thoughtfully.  "Did you like her?"
"It was--"
"--irrelevant, saw that coming."  She looks at him speculatively.  "Did she like you?"
"Not at all."  She tilts her head.  "We didn't interact very much when not in training, and she and Dean--disagreed often."
Her expression implies more information would be welcome.
"I was very different then," he starts, and like that, he remembers that morning in Alison's kitchen.  "A thousand people."
"What?"
I've counted ten sitting across from me so far this morning. For a moment, he can see Alison's mocking smile across the table.  Know thyself, Castiel of Chitaqua.  Know thyself, he told Dean in the bathroom, looking into the mirror he acquired to replace the one that he broke, when Dean asked him, what do you see?
Castiel thinks: actually, I don't know.
"I don't think I spoke to her other than for official business, and generally it was regarding her shortcomings in leadership, her lack of focus on the mission, her interactions with her subordinates, her questionable relationship with the leader of Alpha--"
"Elijah?" Vera interrupts, horror rippling through her voice; ah, yes, she's met them both now.  "Her husband?  You didn't."
"He wasn't her husband then," he agrees in resignation.  "And her lack of faith in Dean's vision."
Vera covers her face.  "Jesus Christ.  So you fought a lot?"

What do you see?

"I didn't fight with her," he tells her, calm in despair, and Vera's head comes up, eyes widening. "I calmly and rationally explained how she was wrong and the steps she should take to correct herself before she damaged--perhaps permanently--our efforts to save the world."
"What?"
"I was sincere," he adds, reaching for his half-empty bottle and finishing it in a single, icy swallow.  "She thought I was uptight, judgmental, supercilious, condescending, presumptuous, arrogant, and near robotic in my emotional range."
Vera stares at him wordlessly.
"The last part is obviously inaccurate. I was an angel of the Lord; my wrath was to be feared."
Vera shuts her mouth with an almost audible click, hand coming up to gesture vaguely.  "Oh God.  Bet you had to do a lot of healing on the training field."
"I'm certain it was necessary in the interests of teaching me as quickly as possible," he mutters, remembering those weeks with an internal wince.  "And assure I was motivated to improve, in which she succeeded beyond any and all expectations, including my own."
"I bet."  Vera reaches for his arm, tugging it over her shoulders and huddling closer.  "So--"
"Amanda is like her."  Against his shoulder, he can feel her still.  "With you, at least, I could excuse my attention as guilt--"
"Thanks."
"--though my enjoyment of your company can't be so easily dismissed."
"Nice save," she says approvingly.  "So Amanda was a reminder.  What about now?"
"She's still a reminder," he answers slowly.  "When I see her fight, I think of my instructor at Alpha, and the other hunters who passed their skills to me, as I did to her, as she does now for others."  Of Dean, who taught him his first lessons in humanity by example before he taught him how to be a hunter and teach others.
This time, he doesn't fight the flash of pain at the memory of Kansas City and Dean's death, but the sharpness is blunted now, like touching a wound that's begun to close, flesh knitting together imperfect but slowly becoming whole, even if the scar remains.  There are far worse fates than carrying the scar of Dean's death for the length of his life; there could have been nothing that needed to be healed.  The memories might hurt, but the pain is worth having them at all.
It's not a test.  Surviving is all you have to do to pass.  Healing isn't a matter of time; it's learning how to want to.  Glancing at Vera, he remembers what she said about her hair; so that's how you do it. "I wish I could have known your sister."
Vera reaches up, twisting a lock of hair between her fingers, and meets his eyes.  "Always with me, every time I look in a mirror."  
"I think I want to teach again."
"That's my boy."  Dropping it, she shoves his knees down and pulls up the blanket, straddling his lap with a wide grin. "Let me be the first--"
"Vera, I don't want to disappoint you, but you weren't my first.  If you want the exact number, however--" 
"Asshole," she mutters as he cups her hips, then leans down to kiss him, warmly friendly, twisted locks of dark hair falling around them.  Pulling back, she grins down at him. "Congratulations, Cas.  You just passed Humanity 101.  Now spread your legs."
He raises an eyebrow.
"It's cold, and you're warm," she says, balancing her weight on her knees and waiting for him to move before settling on the blanket between his legs, warm against his chest, and rearranging the blankets around them before tucking her head under his chin.  "Jesus, much better, thanks.  Believe it or not," she admits. "I kind of missed you, too."
"I don't understand why you--" He cuts himself off too late, but he remembers that conversation with Dean, when he'd wondered why she'd consider him a friend: "I'm betting she saw whatever it was with the two of you better than you did."  "Thank you."
"It's easier to give up than keep fighting," she says quietly.  He gave up before he met her in most ways; after he finished training her group, he willingly discarded what little that remained.  "They say that's the hardest thing in the world.  That--that's such bullshit, I don't know why anyone believes it.  The hardest thing," she whispers, "is to give up, and then decide to try again."  He stills, chest tight.  "It's starting from less than zero; you got nothing you had before plus the memories of how you failed the first time.  How the hell do you even start, much less want to?"
Castiel's eyes drift in the direction of the cabin, just out of sight.  "It helps when someone makes you want to."
"Or someone shows you it can be done, if you're just willing to try.  Which reminds me."  Tilting her head back, she pushes her hair away to look into his eyes.  "Thanks for doing that."
"Question," she asks later, sounding sleepy, and Castiel considers the possibility that sitting outside isn't entirely necessary, and notes that it's getting colder as the night deepens.  "Are you fucking Dean?"
He blames the cannabis for the fact that he almost says, thanks to a sweatshirt, no.  He's never done anything drunk that he wouldn't do sober, and Dean wouldn't be an exception to that in any sense; what he imagines in the privacy of the shower is between him and the water pressure, which depressingly enough, may at this point qualify as a regular sex partner if qualification is based on interaction.  
"Joe said something," she continues.  "I get the attraction of fucking with him and Amanda, don't get me wrong, so just saying, it worked.  You were really convincing."
He supposes they were, yes.  "No, I'm not," he decides after more thought than the question deserves; his tolerance really has suffered.  "He isn't sexually interested in men." 
"Fair enough."  Vera's voice sounds doubtful, but before he can wonder why, she continues.  "So you get sex has nothing to do with jealousy, right?"
Castiel glances toward the tiny, crushed bud of pot suspiciously, wondering if it was stronger than he assumed.
"He was jealous tonight," she says, twisting around to look at him seriously.  "Humanity 201: Relationships, and class starts now.  Which I'm guessing is what you've been trying to work out tonight, since you're sitting in the snow instead of having coffee with Dean on that goddamn porch."  She looks curious.  "You know everyone knows not to go anywhere near the cabin between six to seven and after ten these days unless it's by invitation, an emergency, or a direct order, right?"  He blinks at her.  "Dinner and porch time, respectively."
"No, I hadn't."  He wonders if Dean is still awake, and if he might be agreeable to that tonight, then stops, reviewing their conversation thus far.  "Human sexuality is ridiculously complex for something that you are biologically as well as psychologically designed to engage in for both its procreative potential as well as the pleasure it provides.  While I understand that biological responses may not necessarily reflect the psychological--"
"Oh God," she groans, "Nate didn't--"
"No," he interrupts reassuringly.  "Though case in point."
"The word you're looking for here is 'repressed as fuck'," she says, still wary.  "Zack didn't--"
"Sean distracted him."  He was watching for that, not even aware he was doing it, and he remembers now Sean catching his eye before lazily getting Zack's attention before anyone got to the stoned and regrettable hookup part of the evening.  He can feel Vera looking at him, amusement and curiosity at war.  "Zack and I are of similar build, provided you have a very active imagination, I suppose."
"Zack's like, five nine," she says, baffled.  "How high was Sean?"
"Very."  He considers. "It was also very dark."
"That would explain it."
"They aren't speaking any longer other than professionally," he hears himself say.  "Nate and Zack. Not since Zack moved out."
She snorts.  "Not a surprise."
That's what he thought, yes.
"Good for Zack," she says, then adds more softly, "Wish I could say the same for Nate, but not like anything's gonna help there."
He looks down at her in surprise.  "Nate?"
She shifts restlessly, frowning into the distance.  "Zack can get out of this; all he has to do is get away from Nate, and not saying that's easy, but Nate?  Nate can't get away from himself."
"He doesn't know what he wants."
"Nate knows exactly what he wants," Vera corrects him, a ripple of sympathy in her voice.  "He just hates himself for wanting it and hates himself even more for doing it.  Sure, feel bad for Zack for having to put up with it and Nate making him miserable, can't help who you love, but the solution wasn't ever gonna be 'fuck him into being okay with being gay and be pissed at him when it doesn't work and tell everyone all about it'.  That it took this long for Zack to catch up…."  She shakes her head sharply.  "So no, they're not gonna be friends after; you gotta want to be, and they were never friends in the first place."
Castiel hesitates.  "That interpretation of their relationship isn't one I've heard."
"Everyone on the outside of something like that's gonna read it differently," she answers, mouth quirking.  "Especially if you have a personal reason to be biased toward one of the two participants.  The inside--who knows, not my business, it's theirs.  Though I should stop by tomorrow; I'm not Nate's unwillingly preferred sex or gender and he might like some company that's not telling him he's never gonna do life right anywhere he goes, in detail."
He leans back against the cabin, absorbing that.
"You know," Vera says, tucking her head back under his chin with a sigh, "I'd love to know what you're thinking."
"Kyle and Alicia."  She makes a horrified sound.  "Also, we're building a new mess. I'll show you the hole tomorrow; it is superlative, in my experience with holes.  Bring Nate with you; he can explain to both of us what it's for again, I'm still not clear on that part."
"Did you all shave your goatees before I got back?" she asks curiously.  "Just checking.  So, how close are you to climbing out of your own skin anyway?"  She shrugs at his blank stare.  "I've known you for two years, Cas.  Don't pretend you don't know what I'm talking about."
Oh.  "I'm starting to have a Pavlovian reaction to the sound of running water."  
"This is progress," she observes.  "First step is admitting you have a problem."
"It's not a problem.  He's extremely attractive, I'm effectively celibate, and the cabin is very small," he answers shortly.  "Of course I do.  This can't possibly be surprising."
"So how convincing were you that night?"  There's a highly ominous pause.  "Were you convinced?  Or was Dean?"
That would be the question: for himself, he was very convinced, and now hates sweatshirts when airborne.  "Dean's always been honest.  I certainly won't violate his trust or do anything that might make him uncomfortable."
"Right." She tilts her head.  "You want to talk about it?"
"My ability to read humans is only rudimentary, so of course misinterpretation is almost guaranteed--"
"It's weird, how you're getting worse at lying."
"--but what circumstance could lead you to believe that Dean would be jealous the activities of someone he's living with and has no desire to have sex with?" he says viciously.  "I'm assuming you speak from a position of greater experience."
Vera blows out a breath in annoyance, shifting her head to lean back against her shoulder.  "Fuck you."
"If you're curious, snow has also been a useful solution to the problem."
He can feel her glare.  "I’m not bothered at all that Amanda's having fun in Ichabod, because it's just sex, I get that, and it's not my business, I get that, too."
"Except it bothers you."
"Human 201," she agrees glumly.  "We can control what we do about what we feel, but actually feeling it?  Really not something we can do much about other than grit our teeth and not think about setting all her clothes on fire."
That sounds a great deal like something Dean once told him.  "Amanda or her partners?"
"I'm not that picky."  Shaking her head, she taps an impatient rhythm against his thigh.  "It's so stupid to be mad that she wasn't here when I got back.  Like she owes it to me or something.  I'll get over it."
After a few minutes, Castiel observes, "I hate food, but Dean no longer complains about my cooking and now seems to look forward to meals."
"You learned.  To cook.  I mean, you're good at it."
"I'm good at whatever I do," he answers glumly.  "Provided instruction, I can learn it.  Once I realized that it was simple chemistry, I approached it as I would a batch of MDMA, with care and precision, and the results were unexceptional.  Practice in any skill is essential for mastery.  Dean's nutritional requirements provided appropriate motivation, and it is essential he finds meals pleasant to assure those are met."
"Have you thought about why you took the time to think up a logical, scientific excuse to feed Dean yet?"
He closes his eyes.  "I was about to add that doesn't explain how very motivated I am to master something I don't actually enjoy, or begin to resent the probability that Dean would prefer someone else's culinary efforts to my own.  Of course I know why, I just wish I didn't."
"We're really not drunk enough for this," Vera says depressingly.  "Let's pretend we were, okay?  Go home, and remind Dean that I saved his life.  Maybe a couple of times."  She twists around to look up at him wryly.  "Still don't believe me?  Did you ever hear the phrase, 'it takes one to know one'?  Trust me, you have no idea how true it is."
Opening the door as quietly as he can, Castiel slips inside and stops short at the sight of Dean sprawled over the greater part of the couch, looking both tired and utterly, grimly determined to read--of all possible things--the previous Dean Winchester's journal, again.  Still feeling unsettled, he forgets to close the door, and despite the blankets and the portable heater currently only a few feet from Dean's position, the noticeable drop in temperature gets his attention.  Frowning, he pulls the blankets closer, the green eyes flickering up in annoyance and stopping short.  
"Hey," he says blankly, then looks away, glancing down at the journal as if he's surprised by it before lowering it to his lap, finger marking the page.  "You're home." He shuts his eyes briefly, looking pained, before continuing. "So, uh.  Have a good time?"
"It was pleasant to share a meal with her," he answers carefully, watching as Dean sits up, shivering again, and belatedly closes the door.  "The conversation was both interesting and--" He searches for an adequate word and fails.  "Informative."
A tiny line forms between Dean's eyebrows.  "Sounds fun?"
"If you can think of a reason to send Vera to Ichabod sometime soon, that would be useful," he says as Dean clears a space at the end of the couch and taking the offered spot.  "It doesn't have to be convincing. She won't care enough to judge plausibility."
"Vera?  Why…."  He frowns, tapping the journal in his lap before his expression clears.  "Really?"
"Vera and Amanda are very close and have lived together for most of their time here," he answers, wondering how much explanation Dean might require.  The conversation with Vera had been enlightening in several ways, not least of which was the fact that she hadn't seemed to have realized that the only time Amanda became involved with anyone was when Vera was absent from the camp.  There were very few secrets in Chitaqua, and after Luke's execution, Castiel made certain he knew them all, filing away gossip when it was irrelevant, but an angels' memory is flawless and he didn't forget.  Even so, he might not have considered the possibility if the discussion with Vera hadn't brought to his attention that he was effectively doing the same thing, and for possibly the same reason.  "Amanda missed her."
"First thing in the morning," Dean says promptly.  "I'll think of something."
"I thought you might want to talk to her first."
"Why would I--" Dean stops short, closing his eyes with an expression Castiel can't interpret.  "Yeah, about her trip south.  She didn't, you know, happen to write reports or something?"
"She did," he answers, bewildered.  "I can get them, of course, but I thought you'd prefer to question her yourself."
"Dude, she's a champ at reports."  Dean abruptly looks away, focusing on the door.  "You're right, I should talk to her."  Still staring at the door, he adds, "Funny story, but I didn't believe you when you told me, but dude, you totally called this one.  How the hell…."
"Dean?"  Dean's gaze jerks to him, green eyes widening, before he looks down at the journal in his lap as if he's not sure what it is.  "What are you reading?"
Dean flips it open to the page his finger was still marking, looking relieved.  "Uh, right after you arrived in Chitaqua.  Year One: Revenge of the Croats," he says, rolling his eyes.  "Not that he used titles, but if he did, that would be it.  All Croats, all the time. Seriously, what happened to variety in hunting your supernatural enemies?"
"There are elves later."
"Spoilers, dude."  Closing the book, he sets it on the coffee table.  "You know," there's a pause, almost indiscernible if he hadn't been paying attention, before Dean continues with, "you don't have a curfew just because I came back early."
It wasn't what he first meant to say, and Castiel almost wishes that Dean had already been in bed when he arrived; negotiating a conversation when Dean is attempting to approach a subject indirectly is not something to be risked with anything less than his full attention.
"I know," he says finally; when in doubt, he's found being literal is a perfectly valid method of defense until he understands what they're actually discussing.
"I mean, she just got back--what, this morning or something? So--"
"She arrived yesterday just before noon."  For some reason this makes Dean go still.  "Joe and I were finally able to make her cabin habitable this afternoon."
"You don't say." The flat statement is followed almost immediately with,  "And Jeremy, he--"
"Joseph offered to let him continue to stay with him until James returns from patrol." 
"Joe's great like that," Dean observes, sounding distracted.  "Wow, guy does an overnight and--"
"I meant to ask," Castiel interrupts, hoping to return the conversation more stable ground, "why you returned early.  I thought you were staying until tomorrow afternoon."
Dean looks up sharply.  "Yeah.  Sorry about that, I forgot--something."
"Why would you be sorry?" 
"No reason, just--so what did Vera cook?  Any good?"  
"It wasn't burned," he says thoughtfully, "so I suppose it could have been."
To his relief, that seems to dissipate some of the inexplicable tension.  "We gotta work on your thing against food."
Turning sideways on the couch, he leans an elbow against the back of the couch.  "Have you eaten yet?"
"All the leftovers," Dean answers, grinning at him outright, and Castiel resigns himself to feeling a glow of pride.  "So, maybe it's time to move you up to the chili and cheeseburger food groups.  I think you can handle it."
"I think the lack of vegetables would be a problem, considering you are still subject to Vera's diet, and yes, I did ask."  Dean scowls at him, but noticeably, doesn't offer to take up cooking for himself.  Convenient, that: otherwise, he'd have to think of a reason for him not to. "However, if you're comfortable with my progress in the culinary arts, I'm willing to add more variety in what's offered."
"Variety.  Dude, I know Bobby's entire range, and it's delicious, but variety wasn't his strong suit."  After a moment of consideration, he nods, looking curious.  "I gotta see what you come up with, though.  Go for it."
"Your vote of confidence is appreciated," he answers dryly, aware he's now committed to a path of culinary experimentation with the most exacting critic in possibly the entire world.  It's a worry, but not until dinner tomorrow, at least; surely Dean will accept sandwiches for lunch with minimal mockery.  Distracted by the thought, he doesn't realize Dean's expression has changed into something very like determination.
"So there's something--."  Castiel blinks, turning his full attention on Dean, who looks back, a hint of nervousness flashing through his eyes.  "Vera being here."
Oh.  "I should have sent someone to inform you," he realizes.  "I apologize, but--
"Yeah, and that." Dean hesitates.  "I mean, I get why you didn't, not a problem, but if you'd sent a message she was back---so now you know.  It's just--"
"Dean," he interrupts, aware Dean is preparing another attempt and deciding anything is preferable to having to deal feeling inadequate in basic conversational skills in addition to everything else.  "Any other night, I would pretend to be competent enough to follow your train of thought until I had enough context for that to be true, but I'm not entirely sure how long that will take, and while you may have the patience to wait, I don't.  At this moment, I'm not entirely certain we're having the same conversation, or if we're even talking to each other."
To his mild surprise, Dean's focus shifts to him abruptly, green eyes searching.  "Cas," he says in an entirely different voice, "you're shivering.  Still."
"It is very cold outside," he answers distractedly; now that Dean's brought it to his attention, he's reminded he's now both cold and, thanks to the snow, slightly damp.  "I forgot--"
"Forgot that--you know what, don’t answer that and get up."  To his further surprise, it's an effort, and only Dean's startlingly improved reflexes stop him from stumbling into the coffee table.  "How the fuck do you not notice…." He shakes his head, one socked foot shoving the coffee table away before pulling him inexorably toward the bedroom, expression grim.  "You lived in Kansas for almost three years, Cas, and winter is winter.  You know better than to--"
"I generally avoid going outside during inclement weather," he admits, stiffly taking off his coat, which Dean snatches away before he can remember where the coats are now supposed to be placed.  "I know perfectly well--"  He loses track of the thought when Dean rolls his eyes, giving him a push onto the edge of the mattress, and realizes apparently Dean considers his speed of progress inadequate and is currently engaged with frowning at his boots disapprovingly before starting to remove them.  "Dean--"
"How the fuck long were you outside?" he asks flatly as he tosses the boots carelessly toward the wall.  "When did you leave Vera's anyway?"
Actually, he's not sure.  "An hour ago, I think."
Dean's head jerks up, but he seems to reconsider whatever he was going to say, standing up and pointing at the bathroom door grimly.  "Shower, change clothes, and--"
"I can take care of myself," he snaps before he can think better of it, listening in resignation to the silence stretching  out between them.  "Dean--"
"--I'm gonna make coffee," Dean continues pleasantly, and Castiel listens to the muffled sound of his footsteps retreating toward the door with a sense of resignation.  "Then we'll talk."
When he reluctantly emerges from the bathroom, Dean is sitting in the middle of the bed, paging through the stack of reports that Vera wrote, one for each day of her time in Georgia, and drinking a cup of coffee.  Without looking up, Dean says, "I bet right now you feel much better and resent the fuck out of it."
"I wasn't in danger of hypothermia," he answers brittlely, refusing to acknowledge the implied thoughtfulness of finding clean, dry clothing waiting for him on the toilet. "I know--"
"It was about an hour, in case you're curious," Dean adds, frowning at something on the page.   "Not really a surprise you didn't notice, since you were probably still pretty fucking stoned when you left Vera's tonight."
He stills, towel clenched forgotten between his fingers.  "You went to Vera's."
"Yeah, that talk I have to have with her tomorrow, I thought I should tell her when to show up."  Dean taps the stack of reports.  "Though Jesus, she went above and beyond reporting.  Gloria introduced her to grits, you know that?"
"No, and were you checking up on me?"
"Yeah, I was," Dean answers to his surprise, looking up as he tosses the reports onto the bed.  "Why the hell would I care when she showed up? I wanted to send her to Ichabod tomorrow. Hell, why not tonight; dude, she wrote a report every fucking day…." Bewilderingly, he grins.  "Noon.  She's bringing lunch."
Castiel watches as Dean stacks up the reports again, and stretching toward the other side of the bed, summarily drop them on the floor before returning his attention to Castiel and waving a hand toward the bed.  
"Sit down," he says easily, and it's so normal that he does, watching blankly as Dean leans far enough to retrieve another cup of coffee from the bedside table and passing it to him before saying conversationally, "So maybe I overreacted."
Castiel stares at the liquid for a few moments and sighs.  "I do feel better," he admits reluctantly, taking a careful drink.  "It was half a joint, and I wasn't stoned when I left.  I needed to think, which admittedly, distracted me from realizing how long I was doing it."
"Right."  He glances up warily, taking in Dean's neutral expression.  "Maybe next time, think about just saying, I don't know, that you need some alone time or whatever and not risk potential death in the fucking snow to avoid hurting my feelings or whatever."
"More you would have noticed if I'd been climbing on the roof and become worried."  Dean frowns briefly before his expression clears in belated understanding.  "And there was the wind factor to consider as well."
"Space.  I forgot about that."  Dean nods slowly.  "Anything you want to talk about?  I mean, if you couldn't talk to Vera…."  
"About what?"
Dean groans softly, finishing his cup and stretching to drop it carelessly on the bedside table, ignoring it roll onto its side dangerously close to the edge before dropping back onto the mattress, snickering up at the ceiling helplessly.  Turning, Castiel tries to decide which one of them has apparently gone insane.  
"By the way, she says that according to Joe, she's an excellent cook," Dean tells the ceiling.  "Since she and Jeremy stayed with him last night.  Which she spent mostly sleeping--yeah, just like she said earlier, would have helped if I'd been listening--and I don't know yet if it's embarrassing she knew to spell that out, but on the other hand, she probably didn't want to be thrown in a jeep for Ichabod with a map tonight, so not like she wasn't inspired."  Dean turns his head to give Castiel a wry look.  "How the hell did you know?"
Less chilled, more comfortable, and with coffee, the earlier conversation begins to resolve into something much less inexplicable; the only defense he has is that it's been a very strange night.  
"You thought she'd stayed here before her cabin was habitable."
"Remember when you asked me if I could still be okay with having to give orders to people I knew you were fucking?" Dean asks, expression caught somewhere between amusement and annoyance.  "So yeah, you were right, congratulations.  I'm not."
Castiel almost smiles, but refrains. "Humans tend to react unpredictably to awkward situations.  To be uncomfortable is not a surprise."
"That wouldn't be the word I'd choose, but we'll go with it." Dean folds his arms behind his head, eyes flickering to him ruefully, but there's something else there.  "Why didn't you want to go to Ichabod with me?"
"I told you--"  He makes a face, annoyed with himself.  "When I told you I wouldn't accompany you to Ichabod, the reasons I gave you--might not have been entirely accurate," he says finally, taking just enough time to verify the space behind him is empty before joining Dean and thinking for no particular reason of Alison's spare room mattress.  It was surprisingly comfortable and Dean mentioned that as well; perhaps they could trade for it.  "What you will do will take you away, and that's why you need me here.  So you can do that, knowing I'll keep Chitaqua safe.  That much was true.  However, no, there was no particularly pressing reason for me to stay this time.  If Vera hadn't arrived, I would have had nothing to do but practice cheating Joseph out of his beer in poker."
"God, just imagining Joe's expression…." Dean snickers, shaking his head, then rolls lithely onto his side, propping his head up in one hand. "So you didn't want to come along because…."
"I thought it would be easier to get used to it if I started now," he admits with a sigh.  "It was only two days--"
"One," Dean offers.  "But who's counting?"
"Linear time is very definite in the speed of passage, at least provided a singularity or a black hole aren't involved, which is why I checked to see if the wards had unexpectedly opened a multiplanar passage somewhere causing time to bend unexpectedly. It didn't."
Dean nods, eyes briefly unfocusing in thought before grinning at him.  "Felt like longer, huh?"
"Much."  He blows out a breath, unreasonably annoyed.  "Dean--"
"Cas, I'm about like, two seconds from firing you," he interrupts alarmingly.  "So let me think a second to see if there's another option we could go with, because your boredom is fucking dangerous, and  I mean, sure, you could go back to safely indulging in opening new vistas in sexual expression in a group setting or invent cold fusion with a shoelace and a ritual that calls for cats--"
"A shoelace and cats?"
"--maybe come up with a hilarious way to defeat Lucifer with five common things you find in the kitchen," Dean continues blithely, dropping with a bounce onto the mattress. "Except," he adds more quietly, "I need you to do what you're doing now, and no one here can do that but you."
"I could teach Vera and Joseph--"
"A lot of it, yeah," he agrees, still frowning.  "Except how to know that how we fight this war may be as important as fighting it at all.  Even if we win."  He meets Cas's eyes soberly.  "Maybe especially if we win.  Lucifer or us: there's gotta be a difference, Cas.  He'll just kill us to wipe out humanity; dude, we could wipe out humanity and still leave everyone alive and well, no sweat."
He swallows.  "I don't regret what I've done."
"Neither do I."  The green eyes meet his.  "I don't want an entire world of people who learn how to do that.  What about you?"
Without prompting, his mind offers up James's tragic pain at the state of the jeep, Mira's tendency toward hysterical giggling, Alicia's fear of doing wrong when she treated his bullet wound and yet doing so with grim assurance she didn't yet feel, Joseph's faith practiced as easily as he breathed, Vera locking herself in the bathroom during a brief period of quiet during the worst of Dean's fever, the shower not concealing the sound of her helpless sobbing before she came out, dry-eyed and determined, to try again; Kamal's easy competence and Amanda one night in Ichabod, looking at the empty training field and saying, you really think I can do this? and telling her from the moment I met you.  All I had to do was teach you how to do it faster.
He didn't tell Vera this: Amieyl asked him incredulously why he wanted to teach her, a girl of no importance to prophecy, her destiny unwritten by a divine hand. 

"It's not your destiny to change the world," he told her. "But what happens here, in this time, this place, that you can change.  They don't matter to what will be, their lives and deaths are their own without greater purpose."


She stared up at him, brown eyes narrowing in the small, dark skinned face, and told him, "Is that what you think of humans, that we don't matter unless we're part of whatever plan's supposed to happen?  Their lives matter.  All their lives matter."


"They only matter to themselves, to those they love," he answered.  "But you can choose for them to matter to you.  If you do, that is reason enough for you to stop arguing with me and let me teach you how to save them."


She stopped, eyes wide. "You think that I can do that."


"I know you can.  All I have to do is teach you how to do it well."

"No," he answers softly.  "I don't."
"Good," Dean says lightly. "Remember that.  I need you to do that, too, so you can remind me when I forget."
"In the meantime," he says slowly, "Joseph should be given more opportunity to practice his leadership skills in preparation for our trip south.  Next time you go to Ichabod, I'll accompany you.  If I'm not specifically needed here," he adds deliberately, "there is no reason not to."
Dean slowly begins to smile.  "Now I wonder why I didn't think of that?"
Castiel squints up at him for a moment.  "You're home early."
"Yep." Dean abruptly pushes himself up, collecting their empty cups as he gets to his feet.  "We have anything to snack on?  Jesus, for a goddamn convenience store--"
"I didn't expect you to return until tomorrow, and I don't particularly care what I eat," he answers, sitting up and watching Dean carefully, and sees the tiny smirk.  "Yes, Joseph's casual appearance at six yesterday to invite me to dinner and insistence my absence would be a social solecism which would cause deep pain for everyone involved was extremely persuasive."
"I'm almost as proud of your social skills as your poker game," Dean tells him on his way to the door.  "You want coffee?"
"I'm glad, in retrospect, I heeded his advice before I left last night and hid it," Castiel tells the window casually.  "He made me also swear to tell no one about it."
Dean turns to look at him.  "What?"
"I have no interest in food myself, so I have no idea if what he said was true," he continues thoughtfully. "I suppose I should ask you this; are humans truly prone to violence when exposed to chocolate?"
Dean snaps straight, eyes wide.  "Where?"
"I don't remember."  He tilts his head. "I suppose you'll have to find it."
To his mild surprise, Dean manages to restrain himself to only four bars of the confection that Joseph called brownies, and assured him that if he ever wanted to persuade Dean to do anything and sex didn't work, being able to make these would assure his immediate capitulation to whatever Castiel asked of him.  
Watching in fascination, he thinks that perhaps Joseph had understated the case dramatically.  Dean stares at the last half of the four he'd brought back with him with an expression that makes Castiel think, wistfully, of another shower, or another inadvisably long walk in the cold.  Either would do. 
"Dean?"
"Who do I have to blackmail to get more of these?" Dean asks, not looking away from the plate.  "Wait, can I enslave people?  How do I do that?"
"It might be less morally questionable to simply ask me to make them," he says, and Dean's head snaps up. "When the ingredients are available, of course.  I understand cocoa is a rare and valuable commodity, and not easily obtained.  Ichabod's acquisition of it was apparently both expensive and difficult."
"Conquering Kansas," Dean says thoughtfully, glancing down at the plate before looking up at Castiel with a slow nod.  "I can do that."  
"Joseph didn't warn me megalomania was a potential side effect."
"Probably bucking for general in my army of conquest," Dean answers, reaching down to tear the brownie in half.  "Remind me to tell him you got that job already, but maybe commander or something.  Anyone know how that works in the military?"
Castiel fights the urge to smile at Dean's serious expression.  "I'm not a general, Dean."
"No, not 'a' general," Dean corrects him absently, picking up one of the pieces.  "My general.  Try this."
Before Castiel can respond, a small square of brown pastry is hovering inches from his nose.  "Dean--"
"You didn't even try it, did you?" Dean sighs noisily.  "Okay, time to get you onboard with food.  Baby steps," he adds soothingly at Castiel's alarm.  "First thing, this?  Is awesome.  And you'll like it--you will--because unlike you, I paid attention to Gabriel's interpretation of the four food groups, and I'm gonna bet that kind of thing runs in the family."  Meeting Castiel's eyes, he says with no attempt to pretend it's not an order, "Open your mouth and eat the fucking brownie, Cas."
For a moment, he's tempted to remind Dean how well he responds to ridiculous orders--or any order, really--then takes in Dean's adamant expression, and decides perhaps this particular hill isn't the one he truly wants to die on.  Tentatively, he starts to reach for it, saying, "If you insist--" which is lost in a mouthful of pastry, since Dean apparently isn't willing to wait.
Dean's smile is blinding as he picks up the second one, holding it just out of reach as he meets Castiel's eyes.  
"This time," he says gloatingly. "You gotta say please."
Castiel stares at it unblinkingly.  "Please."
"…find out who can help Chuck handle it, I guess."  Dean looks around the bedroom again, approving.  "I forgot to say thanks, by the way."
"Nate came off duty the same day you left, and agreed to have it complete before you returned if he could take one patrol shift off."  Castiel grimaces, aware of Dean's faint frown.  "I would have told him no, but no one else has any experience with construction, and he knew it.  James didn't question why I assigned Sidney to go with him after statewide patrol begins again, and Sidney was uncharacteristically pleasant when I told him and offered to replace anyone else who needed time off." The memory of that interview is still very odd.  "It was extremely unsettling."
"He really wants off your shit list," Dean answers, skimming the last of the patrol reports from his absence before looking up.  "He knew he had zero chance getting off mine, so you were pretty much his only hope." Dean taps his knee idly with a pencil that, historically, Castiel has never seen him use for any other purpose that to rhythmically tap on the closest available surface; memorably, in one instance, Castiel's foot.  "Cas, Nate really didn't think you would give him the week off.  He was negotiating.  That was the opening offer."
Struck, Castiel reviews their conversation, focusing on Nate's incredulous expression.  "Oh."
"We'll work on that," Dean says reassuringly, grinning at him.  "However, your shitty negotiating skills worked out pretty well this time.  We got about two months to get the new people somewhere to live, and I'm pretty sure winter's gonna stick around for a while."
"The length of the seasons hasn't changed," he answers absently, thinking.  "Four of the cabins should only require minimal attention."  
"Five."  He blinks at Dean, who shrugs.  "Dean's cabin's fine."
"Of course."  He takes a breath, wondering what Dean can see on his face.  "I'll see to that personally."
"I already did."  Dean abruptly busies himself stacking up the remaining reports with far more attention than it requires.  "Got Chuck to help me out, but it didn't take too long."
"The ceiling in--"
"Okay, that part took a while," he admits, frowning at the reports before picking them up and looking around as if wondering where to put them, then gives up and puts them back down.  "I sanded it down.  Slap some paint up there, it'll be fine."
He swallows.  "When--"
"Hour here, afternoon there. You were busy doing shit, I was bored, and Vera said light exercise was fine.  Sanding a ceiling was about as light as you can get; I was basically standing still."
"On a ladder."
"Might have sat down a couple of times, fine," Dean allows, rolling his eyes.  "Chuck--hovered a lot.  It was fine."  After a long moment, he adds in a different voice, "I asked Chuck what usually happens when someone dies--who gets their stuff.  I mean, weapons go back to the arsenal, but the other stuff--he said usually to their friends here, or everyone takes something, whatever they said they wanted, I guess.  That right?"
"Yes," he answers; even to himself, his voice sounds strange.  "Dean's--"
"So his would go to you," Dean interrupts.  "Don't worry: I got Chuck to do the packing.  Dude needed some exercise.  I supervised."
Taking a careful breath, he tries again.  "You can't think I'd contest--it's yours, of course."
"It's not."  Dean sighs. "He's not me, and everything he had--trust me when I say this, he'd want you to have it.  Nothing here's mine, and anyway, I don’t even want it.  So you decide what you want to do with it, and until then, it's in your attic."
Castiel blinks, distracted from argument and finds himself staring up at the ceiling.  "We have an attic?"
Dean makes a strangled sound; when Castiel looks at him, he visibly composes himself, though it seems to require an inordinate amount of effort.  
"You didn't know you had an attic?"
"No," he says, returning his gaze to the ceiling in fascination.  "It can't be very large."
"Not really, but maybe we can find something to do with it.  Anyway," he says, returning to the subject with visible relief.  "Nate can spend his week off checking out the cabins for five more we can get in shape.  It's like, poetic justice," he adds, brightening.  "For not breaking down for you the rules of negotiation.  Awesome way to show his repentance for his sins."
"Great and small," Castiel agrees, thinking about what Dean said and deciding a correction is in order. "I don't have an attic.  However, I'll take your word that we do, and yes, it would be far more convenient to use that to access the roof."
"Yeah," Dean says finally, "no idea what you were trying to say there."
"It's yours as well as mine, therefore the use of the first personal plural is more appropriate than the singular," he answers patiently.  "Attic, cabin, this room, whatever--" he stops, frowning at Dean's blank expression. "I wasn't aware I needed to spell it out.  I thought that was relatively clear, considering that you've lived here since the third day after your arrival."
Dean's face goes through a complicated and utterly inexplicable range of expressions.  "Right. I knew that."
"That was less convincing than you might have assumed."
"That wasn't my best work," Dean replies. "Give me a minute."
"While you do that, I'll take the plate to the kitchen and return the reports to their box," Castiel says, picking up the plate before reaching for the stack and sliding to the edge of the bed.  While the bedroom is noticeably warmer, the temperature of the rest of the cabin is definitely improved by whatever Nate did to make it keep out the cold.  
When he returns, Dean's slumped against the headboard, eyes fixed on his upraised knees.  "It's late," Castiel tells him reluctantly.  "I should--"
"The couch," Dean says. "That's a good question, but I keep forgetting to ask.  Cas, why are you still sleeping on the goddamn couch?"
The answer is so patently obvious that Castiel has no idea what to say to that.
"I get why you were," Dean continues, staring at his knees with an expression Castiel can't quite interpret.  "Thing is, you don't have to.  Not anymore, I mean.  You could sleep in here.  With me."
Castiel chooses the path of silence; it seems safest.
"Mattress sucks, but it's--"
"I could care less about the mattress," Cas interrupts, dropping onto the side of the bed; that may be an answer in itself, but plausible deniability is everyone's friend.  "That would be the least of the attractions in this case."
Dean's eyes flicker up for a burning moment, then away.  "Pillows are great.  You got 'em for me, so you should know.  It's cold--"
"Do you need someone to keep your bed warm, Dean?" he says as lightly as he can.
It's a mistake or possibly inspired; Dean looks at him and smiles slowly.  "That," he says huskily, "would be it."
This, he thinks blankly, would be….would be….
"Come here."
Dean's still smiling when he kisses him, making a low, satisfied sound; it's familiar, one Dean often makes when he gets something that he wants, and different, because what Dean wants has never been him.  Cupping his face, Castiel licks into his mouth, catching his breath as Dean pulls him closer, one hand knotting in the back of his t-shirt.
He hasn't made a mistake with a partner in years; mortal life is short, unpredictable, and for the most part unpleasant, but this--this almost made up for its shortcomings, and he learned everything he could as quickly as his partners' energy allowed.  The greatest obstacle to success, as it turned out, was the easiest to remedy; if they wouldn't--or couldn't--tell him what they wanted, their bodies weren't loathe to do it for them and he paid attention.  If there was contradiction, clarification was both enlightening and sometimes almost the best part; provided motivation, people would say a great deal, in all the detail he could ever want.   
Absolutely nothing but two plus years of practice and bone-deep habit make it possible for him to think at this moment, enough to feel both the unmistakable response from Dean's body--stretched out beneath him, and taking a moment to just look at him is almost a mistake, but the view is incredible--and sense the flicker of something else entirely when he settles between his thighs, the brief moment Dean's fingers freeze beneath his shirt in their protracted skim down his back.
Pressing a final kiss to Dean's throat, he pulls back, settling himself--slightly less intimately if he's going to think and he wants Dean to relax--as Dean's eyes open, green hazy (not helping at all) before slowly clearing. "What?"
"How," Castiel asks sincerely, resting his head on one hand, "do you feel?"
Dean opens and closes his mouth helplessly. "You're kidding, right?"
"Not even a little."
Dean shifts his hips, and Castiel's unbelievably grateful he's not in a position at this second for that to do what it's obviously supposed to do, which is effectively end conversation.  Dean alone is enough of a distraction; he can't do this by vote when Dean and his cock are both going to have the same answer.
"Cas, come on."  Eyes narrowing, Dean stare up at him.  "Look, if this is about--me--"
"It is very much about you," he agrees.
"Not drunk," Dean says clearly, and by his expression he can't believe they're having this conversation, which yes, he's amazed as well, but needs must, "not high, unlike some people were today, and--what's the problem?"
"You're--" --afraid, no, he's not that stupid; uncertain, too vague; worried, if he wants to be pinned to the bed and maybe he shouldn't follow that train of thought; uncomfortable, yes that would be both of them-- "--apprehensive."
English needs more words, he reflects depressingly; that one may be accurate, but on a guess, Dean doesn't care.  "I'm.  Not. Apprehensive. Just because he wasn't interested--"
"I never wanted him, so it wasn't something I thought about," Castiel interrupts and has the rare experience of seeing Dean look genuinely surprised, like he didn't summon that particular ghost himself, which has at least done the job that snow would usually do.  Sometimes, anyway.  "Though I'll be deeply surprised if you differ on a key point."
"I'm not Nate," Dean breathes, staring up at him, and of course he understands, even if Castiel didn't, not entirely.  "I won't regret a thing."
"I know."  Castiel hesitates, licking his lips, and seeing Dean's eyes follow the motion helps not at all and a great deal.  Reaching back, he pushes Dean's right knee down, rolling onto his side and bringing Dean with him, kissing him quiet at the burgeoning protest and keeps doing it as Dean relaxes again, one leg loosely draped over his hip, comfortable and confirmation both.  
However, there's something…something he needs to say first.  Pulling back--and resisting the low growl at the motion--he swallows hard.  "Yes."
"Good," Dean rasps, lips brushing against his and into another endless kiss before Castiel's able to pull away (and remember why he has to).  "Then--"
"To your invitation.  To share your bed," and he can think of about a dozen ways he could have phrased that less--words would be very useful here, he thinks when Dean smiles at him.  
"Our bed," Dean corrects him, kissing him again, heel digging into the back of his thigh as his mouth grazes his jaw, tongue flickering against the grain of the stubble.  Castiel compromises with himself, palming his ass and nudging Dean's head up for a hard kiss before pulling away, resting his forehead against Dean's.  No visualization exercise in existence will help right now, but he pretends at some point his cock will simply get tired, though experience suggest that can take longer than basic biology should ever permit.  Biology is ridiculous.
"I've never--" He swallows again, forcing himself to keep his eyes closed or he won't be able to do this.  "I've never slept with anyone.  Except you."
Dean's fingers check in their stroke through his hair, and he understands completely why Dean likes it so much.
"And I won't," he continues, easing back to look into Dean's eyes.  "Just you.  For the rest of my life."
The green eyes search his for a long moment before Dean says, very softly, "Good."
"I didn't know that," he says.  "I'd like more time to get used to it.  I'm--apprehensive as well."
It takes a few moments, but Dean's mouth quirks in understanding.  "Maybe a little, yeah, fine.  Happy?"
"Yes."  He is, and a little nauseated, as well as turned on beyond belief, and possibly will be hard for the rest of his life. He knows intellectually he won't be, but it certainly doesn't feel that way at the moment.  It's worth it, however; the rest of his life is looking at him from inches away and he's worth anything, anything at all.
Dean's eyes darken, and he leans forward before stopping, looking torn.  "So making out, is that…?"
That isn't a rhetorical question, but it is a stupid one; he pulls Dean into another kiss and grins at the low chuckle reverberating through them both.
@@@@@@
--Day 156--

Castiel had no intention of falling asleep, but he must have at some point; a shock of burning pain from his arm awakens him.  
Feeling heavy and awkward, he rolls off it, waiting out the excruciatingly slow burn, like a slow drip of diluted acid in his veins. When it's finally died down to a slow, heavy throb, he drops back onto the mattress, resting his arm on the pillow above his head and looking up at the ceiling.  
It's much closer than it should be, he finally decides uncertainly.  And seems to be closer still, with every moment that passes.
Sitting up takes far, far too much effort, muscles fighting him blindly, and he has to look for a short eternity at the wall, trying to work out what's wrong; it's the doors to the balcony.  They're gone.  So are the windows, he realizes, feeling his breath speeding up, and the bathroom door, and the walls are closer, far closer, the bags that were set against the far wall are now only feet away and the door into the hall is....
Before the far wall can come closer (and take the door), Castiel is running through it, ducking to avoid hitting his head despite the fact it can't have grown smaller.  The hall's no better, however; it's barely shoulder width and soon won't be even that.
Don't panic, someone says like a suggestion he learn to breathe water.
Turning away from that narrow (narrowing) hall that won't be shoulder wide, he forces himself to go right, past the terrible marble office and to the back stairs, slamming through the (too small) door to confront stairs barely wide enough for his foot, and when he turns around, there's no door at all.  He's in a concrete box and can't get out, a box, a coffin, a body that won't move.  
Visualization exercises, someone once told him (who was that stupid?): close your eyes, imagine a wide open field, there is no door and no stairs and only me and I can't get out; if he had a gun, he would shoot himself; if he could move, he would beat his head against the floor until he was dead, he'll kill anyone who tries to stop him, I can't move let me out why did you do this let me go.
He can barely feel, distant and unreal and wrong, a gentle hand on his head.  I'm sorry, son.  Never would have done it if I'd known.
He feels his hands clench into fists at his side and his eyes close; the memory of that gentle touch is so fresh he can smell motor oil and sweat and flannel and gunpowder.  Calm down now, boy; we'll fix this.
Impossible, he would have said if he could think or talk or move or breathe; he's glad he didn't, since as it turns out, that was a lie.  So many things are, and the best lies are those that are true.
Keeping his eyes closed, Castiel thinks of stairs, wide and deep, burrowing down into solid concrete, builds them as quickly as he can in this moment that he can think; calm down, don't panic, we'll fix this.

Try again.

When he opens his eyes, there's a stairwell, concrete stairs marching downward with a bright green metal rail, as freshly painted as if it'd been done hours before. Turning around, he sees there's no door, but it's only the work of a moment to return it, glass with a view to correctly proportioned hall (it was probably metal, but he needs the reassurance right now).
Facing the stairs again, he debates whether to descend or return to his room (a very good lie, but much like this one, not true at all); he selects the stairs, if for no other reason than curiosity.  When he reaches the bottom floor, the narrow hall--barely room to squeeze through--resists only for a moment before widening obligingly before him, and distantly--feet or miles or the length light travels in a year--he sees a spill of yellow-white light onto the floor from the mess, hear the murmur of conversation, and suspects the party's proceeding very, very well.
Pacing down the corridor past endless doors, Castiel clings to his visualization of a wide hall; distance he can deal with, patience is a virtue and he's had (eons of) practice, but not corridors only half as wide as his shoulders.
That doesn't make it less boring, however.
The mess doorway (very wide, very tall, no doors or hinges at all) yawns open before him, and Castiel pauses in the pool of warm light to observe the expected progress of a Chitaqua celebration following a death.
The tables have been pushed back against the walls in some areas to make room for various groups on blankets, exchanging shots and quiet conversation; David is sitting against the western wall, Melanie's head in his lap as they talk quietly, Liz asleep with her head on Melanie's stomach and legs stretched across Daniel.  Zoe's groupies (he blames Dean for that term) are in a corner, looking moody in her absence and only slightly stoned; he can't say it's celebratory, but the tense, silent grief seems to have finally found expression and begin to ease.  A bright laugh from the far side of the room captures his attention, and in one corner of his mind, he recognizes a poker game in progress at one of the tables, Vera, Jody, Phil, Amanda, and Rob surrounding the table and all looking very competitively drunk indeed.  To his surprise, Carol is in the far corner, ensconced in a much better armchair, bandaged leg elevated on a footstool, with Kyle and Kat in attendance.  
Even their recruits are here; Haruhi's team with Christina's, Haruhi appropriating a very willing Derek's lap and talking with Rosario and Sidney while Henry and Victoria trade drinks with Brenda and Sheila.  Even Sean's moodiness (either the lack of Zack or three days of his team's constant company or both) seems lightened as he gestures expansively (he's also somewhat drunk) in relating something that must be dramatic if Travis and Martin's expressions are any indication.
In the center of the room is a worn armchair, and sunk into the threadbare, stained cushions is a man, sipping from a glass of whiskey, one leg draped over an arm that the stuffing is fighting (and winning) to escape.
Then the green eyes fix on him.
(Castiel catches movement from the corner of his eye; Mel sitting up, Christina's head turn from her place among several of those talking quietly, Sean's attention distracted from his drink, Sarah looking up, Amanda straightening, Vera stilling--all are looking at him.)
The man smiles.  "Look at you.  Last time I saw you, you were looking pretty rough."
(Mel lies back down; Christina and Sarah return to their conversations; Sean takes a drink; Vera and Sarah pick up their cards: like nothing happened at all.)
"I'd just done a great deal of fighting," Castiel answers, toes just brushing against the threshold of the room; behind him, the hall is gone and so are the doors.  He can't concentrate on them right now; at this moment, standing in this wide doorway to this large, airy, window-filled room, it's all he can do not to go inside.  "Where have you been?"
"Around," he answers vaguely, taking another drink, glass briefly flashing metal before it's glass once again. Turning it slowly in his hand, he cocks his head.  "You gonna hold up the doorway all night?  It doesn't need it."
Castiel looks up at the distant frame of the door; no, he supposes it most definitely does not.  Where there was a hallway there's now a wall on either side, solid concrete as thick as a world, and he can feel the wall behind him stop just short of his back.  The walls, as it were, are closing in.
"Come on in," the man says invitingly.  "Have a drink."
Castiel wishes he could nail his feet to the floor, but if he concentrates on that, he'll move and make it very pointless.  "No."
The man lowers his glass with a frown.
(Mel sits up, Christina and Sean turn their heads, Sarah looks up, Amanda straightens, Vera stills--They're all looking at him.)
"Why?" the man asks over the rim of his still-full glass. The walls on either side are inches from his shoulder, and the one behind him is pressed to his back as the doorway before him grows curiously narrower.
"Who are you?"
(They all move closer without moving at all.)
"You know who I am, Cas, come on," the man says, and the glass flashes to a knife before back again.  "I'm me.  Who else would I be?"
"Tell me your name, then."
The man slumps more deeply into his chair with a smirk.  "You know my name."
"Do you?"
The smirk fixes, and everything seems to stop; then he shakes his head.
"Why does it matter?" the man asks with a teasing smile, green eyes alight.  "You always come to me in the end anyway."
(They're half-way to the doorway.) 
The doorway is half the size it was.  The walls are pressing against his shoulders, his back, the ceiling is almost to his head: a box, a coffin, a body, stop.
(They're almost to the doorway and the doorway almost isn't here at all.)
He's trapped in a concrete box; he can't move and he can't breathe, but there's a way out.
"Cas," the man says softly, "stop fighting me; you won't win and dude, you don't even want to." His voice hardens.  "Come here. Now."
Castiel steps into the room from the concrete box, onto red stone that shifts beneath his socked feet.  Mel is in David's lap, Christina is talking, Sean is drinking, Sarah is sitting, Vera and Amanda are playing cards.  
Seated in the iron chair, Dean puts down his glass with a welcoming smile.  "There we go," he says softly.  "You look tired.  I can help with that."
He is tired.  It chases you, you see, and sometimes, it catches up.  It's easy to go into his arms, curl up in his lap, tuck his head down on his shoulder, not think at all. Dean's arm tightens around his waist, fingers sliding beneath the edge of his shirt and edge of his sweatpants to close possessively over his hip.
Leaning over, Dean picks up the glass and holds it to his lips; whiskey has always been his preferred choice, another thing that Dean taught him.
"That's it," Dean says approvingly when he drinks it all, lifting it to his own mouth still-full.  "How you feeling?  Better?"
He nods; he does.
When Dean lowers the glass again, it's a knife. The hilt is wrapped in blood-stained leather shaped to Dean's hand; the blade shines in the dim light, thick with rust, and clotted with old blood and dripping fresh and new; it's formed of Dean's screams on the rack.  "When did you get that?"
Dean flips it idly, catching it across the length of the blade to the tip before the handle is pressed against his palm again.  "I've always carried it.  Almost forgot it was there."
Across the metal of the blade is etched in Dean's own pain: this is my name.
Then Dean's eyes focus on something else; Mel sits up; Christina and Sean turn their heads; Sarah looks up, Amanda straightens; Vera stills; Castiel follows Dean's gaze to the doorway, miles wide and tall, and sees what is without.
It's dark outside; before he added the lights to Chitaqua's paths, moonless nights always were. That's why they chose it, of course, but a clear night was a mistake.  Dean was the only one who knew how well he shot with his left hand, how quickly he could calculate trajectory, and that he didn't need more than the stars to see; Alpheratz was ten degrees from midpoint that night.
"They thought it would be easy, I suppose," Castiel whispers.  "Two windows and a door, all in line of sight."
He marks twenty-one faces; those he could see clearly, the vague ovals of those he couldn't see well enough, but none of those he couldn't see at all and could never count.  He could hear everything, however; each pair of boots on fall-withered grass and bare dirt; each stuttered, rapid breath; the click of the safety of each weapon.  
That, he could count.
"How many?" Dean murmurs, and Mel and Christina, Sean and Sarah, Vera and Amanda surround the chair.  "It wasn't twenty-one, was it?  You knew it was more."
He did; he didn't want to; if he thought about it, he'd never sleep again; he can't forget, but all he has to do is not think of it at all.
More appear, spreading out nameless and faceless, one for each click of the safety on each gun.  When the last click ends, he asks, "Why do you want to know?"
Stop fighting me; you won't win. 
"I'm going to kill them for you." Tipping Castiel's chin up, he kisses him, slow, tasting of blood not yet shed.  When Castiel looks again, more faces appear; some he thinks were among the crowd on Third on New Year's Eve, others he recognizes from Ichabod's mess. "And you're gonna watch me do it. You'll love it, promise."

You don't even want to.

Castiel nods dreamily, settling his head back on Dean's shoulder. "As you wish."
Castiel takes a deep breath, looking into Dean's worried face in the light of the lamp on the other side of the bed.  He can feel the hand on his shoulder, each individual finger, the warmth of his skin, the concern in the green eyes; he can also see the ceiling where it should be above his bed.
"Cas?" Dean asks in a way that suggests it's become a refrain. "Are you--"
Sitting up, Castiel verifies the balcony doors are fine, the curtain revealing a slice of Ichabod outside.  After checking for windows (present), walls (in their correct places), and both doors (also in their correct places), he lies back down, surprised to hear the hitch in his breath.
He doesn't think he ever coveted the ability to dream (or rather, remember doing it), but he must admit he was curious; he could have lived with curiosity if this is what humans experience every time they shut their eyes.
"Cas--" Dean starts with the disciplined calm that precedes a massive explosion that ends in shattered psyches and some truly disturbing stories about what the Watch experienced that one night.
"I'm fine," he interrupts, reaching for Dean's arm before he can get up and teach everyone the meaning of fear (Dean Edition, Unabridged).  There's a vague sense of burning from his arm and what feels like a continuation of the earlier headache picking up where it left off, but he welcomes both; they aren't a shrinking room, concrete box, or...the mess.
Dean seems startled for a moment before catching Castiel's hand as he withdraws it, palms very warm; as it was very cold, that's perfectly acceptable.
"Bad dream," he says truthfully, frowning at Dean.  "If I've ever given you the impression I want you to...."
Dean cocks his head. "What?"
"Kill people for me," he says in a rush.  "I don't."
He has no idea how he's supposed to interpret that expression.  "Was I...ruling the Pit?"
"No," he assures him. "Nothing like that.  It was on earth."
Dean ponders that for an excessive amount of time.  "Dean?"
"Give me a minute," he says. "Trying to decide if this is better.  Demon, assassin--look, your subconscious, what can you do, but any chance a dream with me, I don't know, taking you to a movie or something--anything--that doesn’t involve me doing lots of murder?"  
"It didn't get that far," he explains.  "You woke me up before the presumed mass murder."
"Mass murderer, should have known," Dean says thoughtfully.  "It is just me or is there a theme here."
"It wasn't you."  He shakes his head at Dean's incredulous expression. "It wasn't. I mean," he corrects himself to avoid what will be Dean's next thought, "it wasn't either of you."
"Just what, looked like me?"
"I suppose," Castiel agrees uncertainly, trying to remember.  "He was nothing like you, however. Also, someone Kat-shaped was being very pleasant to an equally pleasant Carol-shape and Kyle-shape, and no one was intoxicated at all despite the amount of alcohol that was being consumed.  It was a room of vaguely-familiar pod people whose only distinction was being far more boring and somewhat uncomfortably predatory.  Are dreams always so...."
"Oh yeah.  Sometimes," Dean says, "you're also naked and reciting goddamn Romeo and Juliet to every English class you were ever in.  And they all look like Dad."
"I prefer the one I had," he says, unable to suppress the shudder at the thought of John Winchester glaring at him from every direction.  Possibly aware of what Castiel is doing with his son, even.
"Yeah, I'm liking yours better, now that I think about it," Dean agrees, mouth quirking. "Though seriously, try for a nice, bloodless movie night, no one dies or tortures anyone else.  Something less realistic, is what I’m saying. Pure fantasy."
"We have movie nights," Castiel protests.  "In our living room.  I enjoy them very much."  He starts to elaborate on that when he realizes something.  "I thought you weren't returning until morning.  Did you find Micah?"
Dean's hands tighten around his fingers, making a very tight but very warm cocoon; provided he breaks nothing important, Castiel can't complain.  Any moment now, he may be able to feel his fingers again. 
"No," Dean starts, looking at some point near his right shoulder. "I--uh.  Came back."
Dean is sitting very close and is, he knows, an excellent source of heat.  There must be some convenient way to access more of it than he's receiving via Dean's (very warm) hands, but the how escapes him.  He suspects it's very obvious, and also suspects at this moment he's not at his best.  Endlessly running through increasingly narrow halls and being trapped in tiny concrete rooms probably explains that, he supposes distantly.  Even ones that only exist in one's mind.
"Joe took over, was probably glad to get rid of me...." Dean trails off, looking down at their hands as if they're supposed to continue that sentence for him.  Then he says, "Cas, are you okay?"
"I don't like dreaming."  Focusing on Dean's face, he asks the first thing that he can think of. "Did you happen to go by the mess before coming up here?"
Dean suddenly looks guilty. "Yeah, I did," he says in the same tone one might admit to visiting a crack den or being in the bed of a person not one's partner without their knowledge or consent or perhaps, Spartacus's army before running away just as the crucifixions began.  Something like that.  "I was just checking in, making sure the kids were..."
"Not comatose from alcohol poisoning," he finishes, nodding; that is not an unreasonable concern.  "How are they?"
"Drunk or trying their damndest."
Castiel sits up, shoving a pillow behind his back and trying not to watch the walls or the ceiling.  "Dean--"
"I was out of line earlier," Dean says quickly, almost like he's just remembered a speech he's been working on for some time (about four hours, give or take).  "I shouldn't have said--well, any of it. And I shouldn’t have left like that."  The green eyes meet his without flinching, but nothing about him isn't braced for a blow.  "So how badly did I fuck up?"
Castiel searches for the earlier anger, but the freshness is gone, stripped of its heat.  All that's left is unformed dissatisfaction, an uncomfortable heaviness in his chest that becomes much worse when he looks at Dean, a strong desire to justify himself (again) and make Dean admit (line by line) that he was right, but inexplicably, there's an even stronger one to do something--anything--so Dean doesn't look like that.
It's so strange; there was a time the anger never stopped, until he forgot he even felt it, clutching it so tightly he couldn't even remember what it felt like to let it go.  He can think of a dozen potential responses calculated to leave wounds that could be years in the healing, drive Dean Winchester from his presence as he did countless times for no better reason than he could.  He used to enjoy it.  Dean is vulnerable in ways that his predecessor wasn't; he could be subtle and careful and far, far more cruel.  He could inflict wounds that would never heal at all.  And unlike his predecessor, Dean would let him.
He could disembowel himself as well, and that at least has the advantage of hurting only himself.  And be far more enjoyable.
"Just tell me," Dean says roughly, and it's only Castiel that would ever be able to hear the minute break in his voice.  "Dude, say anything you want here.  I sure as hell deserve it."
"Nothing happened that can't be mended with discussion, and sufficient groveling, of course," he answers distractedly, not looking at the windows or the doors.  The half-life of a benzo is usually three to five hours, and he can feel the walls not-closing, the ceiling not-lowering, the windows staying very well indeed.
Abruptly, Dean moves closer, warm hand tilting up his face, green eyes searching, and the hand holding his shifts, thumb pressing against his pulse.  "What's going on?  You okay?"
The most ridiculous part of it all; he can deal with experiencing it and even Vera knowing it, but he cannot and has never been to able to talk about it.  It's maddening, like saying words to frame the experience will make them true; that it's not just in his own mind that it is happening.  He's never worked out why; if he's afraid he'll be told it's real, or that it's real and they'll lie and say it's not.  To protect him, like a child, like a pet, like a dog on a leash....
"Fuck," Dean breathes at the spike in his heart-rate and straightening, he looks at the balcony doors, the slice of the world outside the open curtain, then back to Castiel.  "Right, give me a second, okay?"
Castiel wonders what that's supposed to mean, but Dean stands up, stripping off his flannel and wrapping it around Castiel's shoulders (why?) before abruptly dragging all the bedding off the bed. 
"Dean?" Dragging up his legs, he watches incredulously as Dean goes to the balcony doors and opens them to expose the room to what feels very much like the early stages of an ice age.  "What are you--"
"It's fine, stopped snowing," Dean reassures him, stepping outside with a hiss in nothing but his thermal and undershirt and stomping around.  "Could really use a goddamn broom, but this'll work.  No wind."
"Work for what?"
Coming back inside, Dean looks at him patiently before picking up (with an effort) the masses of blankets and sheets and goes back outside.  
"Grab the pillows," he calls out, and Castiel does on sheer inability to think of anything else to do.  Going to the doorway, he sees Dean spread sheet and quilt (for value of 'spread' when it's more a bunched mass of material. Looking up, Dean reaches out a peremptory hand.  "Give me those."  When he does (he can't think of why he shouldn't), Dean arranges the pillows to his satisfaction and sits down, looking at Castiel expectantly.  "Sit down," he clarifies, patting the space between his thighs. "Hurry, it's kind of cold."
It occurs to him Dean may very well be a genius. "Yes," he answers vaguely, joining Dean on the blanket.  "I'll do that."
In only moments, he finds himself in what is inarguably among the best places he's ever been in all his existence: tucked against Dean's chest and between his legs, in a nest of blankets beneath the entire sky.  When he regains blood flow and his teeth stop chattering, he may even comment to that effect, but that would take important time from simply being.  Tucking his head against Dean's neck and almost beneath the edge of the thick bedspread and other quilt, he feels Dean's fingers loosely circle his wrist, thumb sliding down along his pulse point, but far more important (at the moment) is a brush against his hair, a breath of warmth.
Drawing up his knees more closely, he concentrates on the feel of fresh (icy) air and the body-warmth of Dean's flannel that smells like him: Chitaqua's detergent is almost lost beneath a hint of sweat and snow and cold and whiskey (of course), Ichabod's soap, and the rich, faintly musky scent that's a hundred different things that make up Dean.  He would find it everywhere before, but now it's saturated their clothes in the shared drawers, the sheets on their beds both here and at home, even his own skin from Dean's touch or his mouth or wallowing with him in bed.
Breathing him in, Castiel settles himself; if he doesn't do this now, he never will.  "Is my commander available by any chance?"
He feels Dean stiffen before deliberately relaxing.  "I beat him to death, why?"
He should have guessed, yes. "And my partner?"
"Left him for you," Dean answers, voice not entirely steady.  "Anyone ever tell you he's a dick?  You could do better."
He opens his mouth and an unexpected laugh erupts, pressing his forehead against the stubble-scratch of Dean's jaw: how ridiculous and terribly distracting.  "Could you resurrect my commander? I need to--I need to explain."
"You got nothing to explain," Dean says, certainty and guilt so mixed there's no way to tell where one ends and one begins.  "Especially to him."
"I would tell my partner," he says, ruthlessly suppressing the urge to laugh.  "But right now, I suspect he'd agree with anything I said, no matter how inane, including the steps by which I could disembowel him."
It's such a novel thought, almost impossible to believe is true; then again, Dean is always impossible.  
"Please.  I need to explain, and consider it incumbent on you to listen for reasons, insert any you like, provided you do it."
Dean doesn't answer for a moment, but he knows Dean's body; he'd deny him nothing right now, but he takes the time to brace himself for what he might hear.  "Yeah.  Go ahead."
"We found Bobby's body a week after he died."  He keeps his eyes closed, concentrating on the warmth of Dean's flannel to steady himself.  "It might have been as much as ten days, it was unseasonably cold, and...." That part's not important.  "We brought him back to Chitaqua to burn."
Dean nods, a light pressure against his hair.
"I didn't ask why we did that," he continues.  "No matter who it was or what they seemed to die of, they'd be burned where they were.  It was practical; Croatoan can survive so long, it's practically immortal unless consumed in salt and fire.  Even at Alpha, among our own hunters, suspected Croat didn't enter the walls again as anything but ashes: outsiders, no matter how familiar, no matter their method of death, never."
"Makes sense," Dean offers in something very like his normal voice.  Then, "Son of a bitch, that's why you didn't want to bring the team leaders back to Chitaqua?" He slumps back against the pillows, letting out a breath.  "I didn't even think there might be a reason you didn't.  No wonder you were pissed at me all the time--did I do that a lot back then?" 
Castiel is momentarily struck dumb by how many contradictory answers he has to that question in general, and it's almost a relief to realize he could simply confine his answer to the specific.
"No, that's not the reason.  You were right, which had already quickly become annoying, if you're curious.  Bobby was the first we brought to Chitaqua to burn, but not the last; no matter their manner of death, no matter the suspicion of Croatoan, no matter how long it took to find them, we brought our hunters home to burn."  He swallows.  "I never asked why we instituted that policy in direct contradiction to that Dean established at Alpha; I never even questioned it, or even thought about it. I helped Dean instruct and drill everyone in the precautions until they were reflexive; we retrieved the bodies, prepared them as best we could considering their state, those who wished to were allowed to view them, and at dusk, everyone gathered together and we burned them.  Dean never explained, of course, but in this case, it was simply because we both knew why."
Dean remains silent, and he wonders what he's thinking.  He gives himself a moment (to brace himself) then sits up, immediately pulling the flannel closer against the chill as he looks at Dean.  "If Ichabod hadn't shared that tradition--if they did things a different way--I would have respected that, of course.  They don't, however; the only deterrent for them isn't the risk, but what is possible."
Dean catches his breath.  "That's why you went out there."
"Croatoans weren't the problem--or at least, less of one, and I suspect Ichabod's patrol would have already been planning how to get them if not for one other thing they can't hope to fight and win.  I can count the number of humans on one hand who have successfully killed a Hellhound and survived, and it's only double that who managed the first alone; Ichabod's patrol is very skilled, yes, but they'd have no chance at all, and they knew it.  They share our traditions, and like us, they measure risk against what is gained, but they aren't foolish; like us, they know what's not possible."  He wets his lips and feels them almost immediately go numb.  "That doesn't mean it didn't hurt, and wouldn't continue to hurt, every time any of them saw those bodies on the ground that close--only the ward line--and they couldn't get them."
"And Croats making a snack of 'em when they got bored," Dean says quietly, green eyes unreadable.
Castiel nods.  "It wasn't possible for them to retrieve the bodies, it was not risk but certainty that stopped them; that is not true for me.  I could distract the Hellhounds, and I can kill them; all those I trained know how to fight them, how to avoid it, and most important of all, how to judge which of those two things to do.  I didn't order anyone to assist me--I made it clear it was not a mission and no one was required to come--but I'm their commander, and my example might have influenced them against their own inclinations--"
"Dude," Dean interrupts, sounding strained. "I just came off a thousand mile run with five of your goddamn students, and I wouldn't have believed that shit before Alicia played tag with Croats while Amanda went sniper on a demon like it was her goddamn birthday."
He must admit, they did seem rather enthusiastic. Putting that firmly aside, he returns to the point.  "I don't regret it, and I would do nothing different," Dean's left eye twitches alarmingly, "but you're my commander, and you decide policy.  If you feel the risk is greater than--is too great, then I'll...obey your orders."
Dean starts to answer before he abruptly closes his mouth, sitting back against the pillows to regard Castiel as if he just said something very profound.  "You'll obey.  If I say, no more going out to retrieve bodies, whatever, you're okay with that."
"I didn't say that," he answers, feeling the chill cut through the flannel as if it's not there at all.  "I said I'd obey; I didn't say I'd be okay with it."
"Right, that's actually a valid point," Dean agrees, still watching him.  "Tell me why I should let you."
He didn't expect that.  "What?"
"Tell me why--as your commander--I should let you, and by extension Chitaqua, go out and retrieve bodies for Ichabod.  Or anyone: once you start that kind of thing, it gets around."
Rapidly, Castiel reviews the entire preceding conversation; this isn't a dream (he thinks) but his two experiences suggest that can be deceptive. "I just told you why--"
"You told me," Dean says evenly, "why Ichabod does it for theirs.  You told me why we do it for ours. You've given me no reason whatsoever why you--and Chitaqua--should risk their lives for Ichabod's dead.  Or anyone else's, for that matter, let's go there: why?  We're not talking saving lives, Cas; we're talking mortuary services here."
Frantically, Castiel reviews his early arguments and realizes that point is covered nowhere in them, and while there are several possibilities, there are holes in them all. "Our agreement with the Alliance--"
"Did not cover dead body retrieval," Dean interrupts smoothly as Castiel reviews the entire agreement to the subclause; he didn't expect it to be mentioned specifically, but he'd hoped for more ambiguity, somewhere. Anywhere.  "Come on, Cas, you had a reason, don't throw in the bullshit about tradition and sad people's feelings; their loved ones are dead, they're gonna be sad, the bodies may do something for them, may not, but we're talking reasons, real ones here."
"Those are real reasons," he argues, vaguely aware this conversation is starting to resemble the earlier one but unable to stop it.  "I don't know what you want."
"If you can't tell me why--"
"I told you why!"
"You told me why we do it and why they do it, but you haven't told me why we should do it for them," Dean says in the same frighteningly even voice.  "Pay or play, Cas, we don't have all night; one roll, winner takes all, you place your bets and take your chances--"
"Because I could!"
Dean blinks at him.
"It was all of those things I said," he says, not sure why he's talking but he can't seem to stop.  "But it's also this.  When you see someone fall and they hurt themselves, you don't think of the traditional history of falling and its application to this specific moment for relevance; you ask them--provided they're conscious, verbal, and not concussed--if they need help up and follow their directions, and discard the question altogether if all three of those criteria aren't met.  If someone can't lift something, you help them; if it's beyond their strength or abilities for some reason, you do it for them.  If someone stumbles, you catch them; if they're thirsty and you have water, share it; if they're hungry and you have food, offer it; if they're tired, give them somewhere to rest; if they're threatened by a vampire or a more aggressive than average gnome or insert creature here, protect them; if they hurt, provide comfort in whatever method they require; if they are there, and so are you, if you can, you should.  My question is, all things being equal and in the absence of any compelling reason to do otherwise, why on earth would anyone not?"
Dean's eyebrows--which have steadily been climbing--reach maximum ascension and visibly struggle to go higher.  He has no idea whatsoever how to interpret that.
"If you wished me to do otherwise," he adds determinedly, "you should not have modeled its opposite so thoroughly."
He wonders uncertainly if Dean's mouth just twitched. "Dude, you didn't get that from me.  That's all you, buddy."
Licking numb lips (and regretting it, why does he keep doing that in this weather?), he shakes his head, ignoring Dean's frown.  "The Host is not taught of human suffering; they accept it as a given, and like many things, it has always been unquestioned.  Joy is deceptive and fleeting, pain is constant, all that is lived and experienced on earth is but a short, brutal prologue to eternal rest."
Dean makes a face.  "Okay, that's--not entirely wrong."
"It's a greeting from a substandard Hallmark card--albeit a highly experimental line that you'd only send to people in the hope they'd hang themselves in response--with less emotionally complexity than 'Get Well Soon'," he retorts. "Gaze on a single grain of sand and then presume you now know the nature of the cosmos: your ignorance would be appalling but still less than that of the Host, who never bothered to so much as look." 
"And you started looking," Dean says softly.
"You asked," he whispers, "why I continued to stare at a single grain of sand when there were mountains to be seen.  All I had to do was look up." He looks away.  "Human misery may be ubiquitous to the human experience but it's not synonymous with it--I feel I could have phrased that better, but I truly can't bring myself to care--and we can reduce it, and in its absence joy will grow.  And if we can, we should."
"You convinced me." Dean voice wobbles oddly.  "We'll--uh, we'll do that.  Keep doing it."  
Castiel looks up, biting back the smile at the hot flush across Dean's cheeks. "I rather thought you'd understand."
Dean ducks his head with a low chuckle, dragging Castiel willingly into his arms and pulling the blankets over them again.  "Not like you didn't do anything I wouldn't have done."
"I hoped I wouldn't need to point that out," he tells Dean contentedly, tucking his freezing nose against Dean's less-freezing neck.  "I don't particularly like fighting with you."  
"I should have done it," Dean says more softly, and from the resigned sound of his voice, he's been waiting to say that for some time.  "That's on me, Cas.  Ran out of there, forgot all about them."
"The search," he starts, then realizes this might take a while if he takes that tact.  "You did what you were supposed to do. There are, after all, supposed to be two weights."
Dean's arms tighten.  "Uh.  What?"
"I see what you mean now," he continues; they really can't stay out here much longer, Dean is going to become chilled and he needs his sleep.  "I thought you were being facetious, but you were right."  Reluctantly, he lifts his head and looks into Dean's eyes (and controls the potential chatter of his teeth).  "You were unequivocally right on all points without a single exception; it's not something you can do alone and most definitely shouldn't, there are two weights, and I am very glad I accepted your offer to bear one of them."
This close, Dean has without a doubt the most perfect eyes in the world.  (He, too, should probably be asleep.)
"You," Dean's voice wavers.  "You told me you couldn't do it, remember?"
He did say 'all points', but he can be generous.  "As it turns out, I can.  You were right about that as well."
"Did you sprain something?" Dean asks, mouth curving in a slow smile. "Saying all that?"
"The truth always hurts," he concedes reluctantly. "That's why no one likes it. Can we go inside now?  You're shivering, and it could be my own exhaustion speaking, but you may also be turning blue."
Dean's hands come to rest on his cheeks, staring at him like he's not sure what he is.  "So your commander had to leave before he could get to the part where you thought it'd be a good idea to face down a Hellhound alone so you could explain..." He chuckles softly, looking at him--no one's ever looked at him like Dean does.  "He'll talk to you about that tomorrow, okay? In detail."
Castiel gracefully concedes tomorrow--today?--later would be much better, yes. "And my partner wishes to say something now?"
"Your boyfriend...." Still grinning, Dean tugs him into a kiss, and Castiel forgets he's ever--in his entire existence--known the meaning of cold.
Despite being (possibly) blue, Dean insists on handling remaking the bed while Castiel occupies with watching him do it.  This isn't in any way a problem; Dean breathing in his general vicinity is the height of entertainment, and in motion is--somehow higher.
Snuggling under the replaced blankets, he yawns as Dean pulls the curtain into position, leaving the exact same opening to reveal Ichabod outside, before glancing back at Castiel.
"Yes," he agrees, then reluctantly adds after a careful internal check and considering Dean's vulnerability to the cold, "but it's probably not necessary right now." 
"You like it, so it's necessary," Dean says, going to their bags and changes in record time; Castiel's only regret is that he can't see to Dean's dressing and undressing himself, a regret he carries every single day.  When he comes to bed, Castiel doesn't bother to wait before curling up against him and doesn't even wince despite the fact nothing--even vacuum space--lacks as much heat as Dean's feet.  In the (will soon be) warm darkness, he hears Dean says, "You usually go roof-sitting or camp-walking when you feel like that, head it off, I guess.  What happened this time?"
"How did you--"
"You told me." He did, yes, but he didn't expect Dean to extrapolate that so well (what a stupid thought: Dean can do anything).  "Was it me?  What happened earlier?  I set it off?"
He would lie--happily, with a clear conscience and without regret--but fortunately, he doesn't need to.  "No."  Reaching down, he thrusts a hand into the pocket of his sweatpants and finds it at the bottom in an unexpected crease.  Removing the pill, he places it in Dean's surprised hand.  "Alprazolam, point five milligrams," he answers sourly.  "During those times one's drug use isn't as it should always be, recreational.  Vera prescribed it."
Dean looks up from his squint at his palm.  "When she lived with you, something happened?"
"Yes.  She recognized the signs and told me what it was.  I had assumed it was some sort of obscure damage from Falling that would eventually kill me, but as it turned out, it was perfectly mundane overstimulation of the central nervous system responding to emotional stressors resulting in an adrenal dump leading to an artificial flight-or-fight reaction; when some set of arbitrary conditions are met, all that is needed is a trigger or something, she used many more word, of course.  In Latin."
After checking with him, Dean reaches over to set it by the lamp on the wooden crate.  "Used to be worse?"
"Much," he says.  "And more frequent.  The--disagreement--didn't help, no, but that alone wouldn't be enough." He remembers Sean's ridiculous behavior outside Nate's room and what Alicia said about Chitaqua being surprisingly calm for so many volatile (to say the least) soldiers in one place.  It might even explain Kat's volatility, for that matter.  "Earlier, Vera told me if it made me feel better, there was a reason she got those scripts from Ichabod, which I can infer means it wasn't just me that needed them. Remind me in the morning to place candles in all areas that we congregate in."
"The geas." Dean blows out a breath that's almost a snarl before abruptly sitting up.  "The party downstairs--"
"Like most compulsives, a geas takes advantage of human neurochemistry," Castiel interrupts.  "Unless the person or persons who created this showed more foresight in this one area than in anything else they've done, it wasn't ever met to deal with a depressive, which alcohol definitely is, especially with what we have here."
"So if we got the whole town drunk...."
"I do see the irony," Cas agrees, but to his displeasure, Dean slides out of bed with a hiss, hunting for his boots.
"Just gonna send everyone to bed," Dean tells him, pulling on another flannel over his thermal as he starts for the door. "Give me five minutes, okay?"
It's longer than five minutes, but eventually, Dean returns in desperate need of being warmed (though Castiel makes a note to have Vera examine Dean's feet at his next physical for blood flow; nothing can be that cold).
"Vera, Matt, and Jeremy helped," Dean tells him when his teeth stop chattering, settling in with a contented sigh.  "She'd just come back from the infirmary; she and Dolores examined Carol's leg after she took her back earlier."
"How is she?"
"No change," Dean answers quietly, and Castiel knows he's thinking about Carol's bandaged leg.  "Which she said doesn't mean much but Carol has more time."
Castiel nods; Vera might doubt her skill, but that's not the only reason she thinks the surgery on Carol's leg didn't work.  Even had Darryl (sober and clean) performed the surgery in a fully-equipped surgical unit, it might not have been enough with the kind of damage that a Hellhound does to a human body.  That she hadn't died during that attack is a testament to Carol's skill, but when not otherwise occupied or when they have no need for a quick kill, a Hellhound's attack is meant to mutilate, to maim, to do immense damage, as much as possible while the prey is still living, before they finally kill.
"She also said," Dean adds in a different voice, "that Rem--one of the guys from Volunteer Services killed himself a couple of hours ago."
"I thought everyone was being watched?"
"They were, but Vera said he seemed okay," Dean says softly.  "There was an emergency in the infirmary, they thought he was asleep, ran down to help, and he...." There's a pause.  "He was waiting for that, I guess.  He was on the second floor.  He tied his bedsheets together, made a noose, and jumped out the window.  Didn't hold long, but enough to break his neck." 
He nods against Dean's shoulder, not sure how to offer comfort or if Dean even realizes he needs it.  "Teresa and Wendy are still working on retrieving the original instructions, but how much that may matter to guessing the future effects depends on how much it alters as it passes, now in infinite variation."
"Stupid question," Dean says, and something in his voice makes Castiel tense.  "We have any idea yet how to get rid of this for good?  I get knowing more about this will help, but that part, I haven't quite worked out yet."
"There are an infinite number of ways to remove a compulsive, even a mass one," he answers slowly.  "However, we must have the original to narrow it down.  This isn't what is possible, but what is practical.  The one most likely to work right now is the most impractical; Teresa gaining enough power from the earth to lift them from discrete groups and isolating those who still have it from those who don't.  But--"
"A lot of power, a lot of time, a lot of people, and how the hell do we divide the town between 'isolated' and 'not' longer than a day, maybe two?" Dean says for him.  "And Alison...?"
"Alison is very powerful in potential and unpracticed in what power she has in fact," he explains; it's far easier to discuss what Alison can do than explain what she can't and why.  "Alison hasn't--as far as Teresa and Wendy can ascertain--been affected by the geas despite the fact she is probably the most exposed person in Ichabod."
"All those tours of Third through Seventh," Dean agrees with a sigh.  "And thank God for that, or I don't even want to know what would happen with her in a catalyst event."
"Try not to even try to imagine it," he answers, feeling Dean's hand start to stroke his back.  "Psychics do have some inbuilt defenses against coercives, but Teresa is almost certain it's her shielding, which she has improved at immensely since this started."
Dean tilts his head down to look at him.  "Good job, Professor Cas."
"I would normally be more modest, but yes," he agrees and is rewarded with Dean's smile.  "Or rather, our sessions together; she's an excellent student and I was very thorough as she advanced.  If she'd had direct contact with the maps, it would be useless, but now it's going between people, and that does have a very small psychic component, and that much protects her.  Would that I could work out how to teach people who aren't not psychic to do that; it would fix this very quickly."
"Can they?" Dean asks doubtfully. "I mean, not being psychic and all? Wouldn't that be like trying to teach someone red-green colorblind to see red or something?"
"A stop sign is always red," he explains after thinking about it for a moment.  "That's a standard used on roads to denote 'stop'.  Even if you couldn't visually discern the color yourself, because it's standard you have learned its color is called 'red'."
Dean looks even more dubious.  
"It's not helpful now, no," he admits.  "But working so closely with Alison has familiarized me with human perception and given me context on how to translate my own knowledge to fit her abilities.  It's not a question of 'possible', but more...'yes, but not yet'."
"You're adding this to the List, aren't you?" Dean asks with a warmth that makes Castiel curl closer.
He nods.  "I am, once we deal with...everything else."
"Fair enough."
Dean nods, and Castiel almost thinks they dodged the evitable bullet that is Dean's tendency to dwell when the stroking comes to a stop.
"Everything else, yeah.  How long until...."  He hears Dean inhale sharply before continuing.  "How far along is the sacrifice now anyway?  We're what, two days from the barrier going the way of the dodo, so..."
He'd lie--happily, in relief, to both of them--if he knew what answer either of them wanted to hear.  That leaves only honesty; twice two thousand lives must end to do this, and it's simply math.  Crowley said it would be fast, but these are demons; they'll assure there's sufficient time for pain.  
"Unless something went very wrong, with the potential number of people, the circle should have been closed two days ago at the latest and the sacrifice begun.  No matter how well controlled or powerful their master, these are demons; their master will use as few as possible to do this, both to avoid the possibility of them making a temporary alliance against him to gain the power and overpower him, and to make killing them all very easy when they're done."
Dean doesn't say they don't even know if the circle works; he doesn't say they should hope it does or that it doesn't; he doesn't mention Erica or the Misborn or the geas again; he doesn't list all the ways that they could die, because there is one way that they most certainly will; if the circle doesn't work, if the barrier doesn't come up, if it comes up too late, they won't survive, and no one else will, either.  All the ways they could die, but that one--the one that could render all the others moot or at least less dangerous--is the only one they cannot control and would have stopped if they could.
And for twenty-seven people yesterday, none of that matters at all.  He doesn't think it should--even be for a moment--considered an advantage to be dead simply on the strength of not having to worry anymore when and how you'll die.  
"I attacked a Hellhound with nothing but my knife without backup," he says abruptly.  "I could very well have been maimed by a second one if Sarah hadn't shown initiative beyond which I assure you anyone who has ever met her could possibly have expected.  Did anyone tell you--"
"What," Dean says incredulously, "are you doing?"
"--that she beat it with her rifle until it ran away?" he finishes desperately.  "I was very reckless and should be spoken to firmly on the subject, truly I deserve it.  Now is an excellent time."
Castiel lands (painlessly) on the bed as Dean sits up, staring down at him as if he's gone insane (that was years ago, they should all move on now).  "Christo."
"You, on the other hand, killed six to eight Croats while bravely protecting the wall and the gate, ran almost three miles chased by more of them while shooting them when possible, and in what is possibly the most dramatic moment of any mission I've ever seen, entered the postern door at the very last moment," he says, ignoring Dean breathing an exorcism with a truly terrible accent; they'll work on that.  "If we go back a day earlier, you--"
"Are we really going to run through the Ichabod Adventures right now?" Dean demands.
"Only the ones we survived," he answers reasonably.  "That would be all of them. I could be wrong, but I think we're on a streak."
Dean glares at him for another moment before dropping back on the bed with the most put-upon sigh ever uttered by any human being.  Rolling over, he shoves an arm under Castiel's shoulders and jerks him closer.  "Is this your version of thinking positive?"
"How am I doing?" he asks, sliding an arm around Dean's waist, eyes already falling closed.  "Feedback would be appreciated, of course."
"Let me think about it," Dean murmurs against his hair. "Get back to you in the morning."
Dean wakes at dawn with the impression his right hand and forearm are being crushed beneath the Chrysler Building: holy shit.
"Dean?" Cas says sleepily, rubbing his stubbled cheek against Dean's shoulder like a really sexy cat (wait, what?), which any other time Dean would be able to fully appreciate and not simply note as happening.  "Are you okay?"
HE doesn't even try to unfist his hand; that way lies possible whimpering. "Bathroom," he says in a decent imitation of his normal voice.  Stroking down Cas's back with his left, he drops a kiss against his hair without thinking about it and wonders when he started doing that.  "Be right back, okay?"
With a sigh like someone just asked to run a marathon, Cas shifts onto the pillow while glaring at him from behind tangled brown hair and giving the impression Dean's doing this just for spite or something.  Sitting up, Dean also notes being in pain does in no way affect his reaction to a sleepy, rumpled Cas in a sea of bedding; it's like domestic porn or something.  A little desperate, he reviews centerfolds from every magazine that comes in a plastic shame wrap and by the time he hits the bathroom is resigned to the fact they may still be hot, but not as hot as that.
Dean thinks, just to check: my sleepy boyfriend in a perfectly normal bed is sexier than porn.  For fuck's sake, those are cotton sheets you buy two for the price of one at Walmart.
(Walmart: best place to shop at midnight when you got some corpses and nothing to wrap 'em in.  He's comparison-shopped this shit in twenty-two states; he knows.)
Dean takes care of urgent bathroom business left-handed (that he's used to) before going to one of the unsettlingly wide marble sinks that never ceases to make him wonder uneasily what the fuck lawyer guy was thinking and turning on the hot water.  Someone (Dane, probably) did something Dean assumes was not a blood sacrifice (though in this case, not entirely opposed) that turned their kind-of sometimes not-cold water into actual hot water.  Which means a building no one uses in Ichabod that they started occupying four days ago is doing better on water than their camp.
(Potable water is happening, one way or another.)
As soon as it's just below scalding, Dean turns on enough cold water to not end up with almost-burns before shoving his hand beneath the excellent water pressure coming from the faucet, stiffening at the bright shock of pain from muscles not into the 'relaxing' thing. It's almost impossible to imitate Cas's massage magic period, much less with one hand, but he does try, rubbing his thumb into the center of the palm and trying to replicate by memory what he usually experiences in a state of not-entirely-exaggerating euphoria and only remembers as 'oh God yes'.  
Sure, he could ask Cas to help, like someone sensible and rational, but call him crazy, he's kind of not okay with demanding his boyfriend take care of his poor fucking muscle cramps after so spectacularly fucking up taking care of his actual bleeding Hellhound wounds.
Eventually, he feels the stiff muscles start to respond and makes a note to get the wrist brace that was helpfully packed up with Cas's drugs and various medical paraphernalia by Mel and brought to Ichabod.  
With a sigh, he looks in the mirror and freezes at the utterly familiar face that is reflected back at him; it's like looking at a perfect copy of himself.  A glint of something gets his attention, and in the mirror, beneath the spray of steamy water, he sees his fingers tightly curled around a knife.
Dean doesn't remember moving, but the sharp pain in his head and the abrupt distance between him and the sink suggest he's flat against the opposite wall, hand throbbing anew. Automatically, he steadies his breathing, using every trick he learned on a thousand hunts to remain calm; only then does he look down and see his fisted hand is wrapped around nothing at all.  Before he can think about it too hard, he lifts it up and the mirror shows the same goddamn thing: nothing there.
Dean thinks: long day, not enough sleep, Andy, Carol, Erica, Alicia (don't think about that), Hellhounds, fight with Cas, killed twenty-seven people, everything fucking thing else.  Not a surprise, come to think: the surprise is he isn't hallucinating himself up a real machine gun and taking out everyone on spec.
It still takes him a long couple of minutes to move and even longer to finally turn off the water. Looking into the mirror, the only face he sees now is his own.
"Breakfast," Dean tells the lump of Cas beneath the covers and takes the vague seismic shift of bedding as either acknowledgment or Cas's way of saying he's not moving and if breakfast must be had, it will come to him.
He can do that.  "Be right back."
After checking in at front desk and being handed reports (so literally nothing is an excuse not to turn in reports), a stack of messages (they--get those now), and Jeremy transparently watching the door for Joelle, Dean braces himself before looking in on the mess.
It's not as bad as he thought.
The main area looks like someone (several someones) did the bare minimum to get it functional again (all tables and chairs upright and in some kind of eating position), and the kitchen is spotless.  Brenda and Alonzo apparently have been up since before dawn if the fact there's actual food on the stove cooking is any indication.
"Rice, beans, oatmeal," Brenda recites. "Our breads of the day are naan, cornbread, and corn tortillas."  She waves toward Alonzo, who's cutting up cornbread while keeping a sharp eye on a tortilla pan on one of the burners where four are frying.  "We're still deciding on lunch, but assume rice will be part of it."
"Lunch existing is all I ask," Dean promising, failing to acquire his own dishes or silverware when Alonzo frowns at his approach.  Retreating to the counter, he watches Alonzo take out two bowls and a plate before hunting up silverware.  Dean would worry this is some kind of 'serve the leader' thing, but this is Brenda and he's getting to know Alonzo, and he suspects they're just really possessive of the kitchen and all within its domain.  "How are supplies anyway?"
What he means is 'how are we not debating the morality of cannibalism yet anyway'?
"No idea," Alonzo answers, flipping the tortillas before indicating Dean should choose his bread (he points to the cornbread).  "One of us stops by, get our daily bundles, take it to the jeep."
Huh.  "Beans and rice," he says, when Brenda looks at him significantly.  "Who's working supply besides Lanak?"
"Lanak," Alonzo and Brenda say together, Alonzo adding at Dean's blink, "About nine months ago, a barrel of salted meat disappeared.  As it turns out, Tony approved it be taken but forgot to tell her.  Short version, he was at the power plant all day and didn't know there was a problem, and that was sixteen hours of our lives we're not getting back."
Dean almost asks for elaboration and then realizes, actually, he just doesn't want to know, ever.  "So she--doesn't like people in there?"
"She's got all the keys and can remember every single thing in inventory, where it is, and how much," Alonzo says.  "Or fakes it so well you can't tell the difference."
He thinks about dropping it, but they gotta know the same thing he does.  "Any idea how much food we have left?"  It's not that he's conversant with the supply needs of a town running at something like two hundred times capacity (why is he thinking that; it's twenty thousand, always), but he's familiar with Chitaqua now and can extrapolate.  Maybe some refugees brought food with them, they got supplies from the other towns, and they were just past harvest and going into winter, but they're not in plausible territory anymore.
And yet, that's two bowls of very plausible beans and rice right there.  "Thanks," he tells Brenda, looking between them and noting how they're not answering and focuses on Alonzo, who is both a resident and doesn't live in Chitaqua and therefore the weakest in the kitchen herd.  "Come on, I get it, Ichabod doesn't want to say they're wiping themselves out, but inventory's gotta be close to empty.  At least food inventory."
Alonzo and Brenda exchange a complicated look (it's early, okay), and then Brenda nods and suddenly says, "Let me get you a carafe, there's one--in the pantry."
Alonzo sighs, adding the finished tortillas to the massive stack and taking four more rolled out circles of dough and placing them on the pan.  "No one's seen inventory except Lanak, I don't think.  Except maybe Alison, since that's part of her daily tour of town."
Yes, Alison's daily marathon of mayorness, during which Chitaqua's teams have discovered they're amateurs when it comes to tracking skills.  Sure, the supernatural can be tough and everything, but Alison is a goddamn education; she either ambles along at something not unlike a slow-motion walk or hits light speed when something catches her interest (what, who knows? Could be anything).  If there's a door you didn't see, she walks through it; if there's a crowd, she's already inside it; if there are no stairs, he suspects they appear when her watchers stupidly blink so she can climb up and/or down them. Worse--and both Christina and Sean confirmed he didn't imagine it--she somehow picked up some mayor-version of Cas's angel of the Lord voice that pretty much everyone (including Dean, fuck his life) is helpless against when she drags it out and throws it at you like a goddamn soul-seeking missile.
Alison's grueling daily march through town, checking on everyone, listening to complaints, appearing not just at the five big population center for refugees but as many of the other buildings as she can, with a smile that must take fucking superglue or something to keep in place because muscles just weren't meant to be in that shape for that long...he gets why she does it, even if Sean and Christina didn't.  
They know her name and her face because she's there every goddamn day, shares with Claudia listening to the complaints and problems that the volunteers or their supervisors couldn't handle, speaks to as many as she can in the time allotted to each of her stops, and promises to see them again tomorrow.   It's not just that it's her town that they're in; she wants everyone that as long as they're here, they're her people, too, as much as the residents.  Make the town a little less strange, what happened to them a little less terrifying, make them feel a little less helpless: Alison may not be a people person, but she fucking nails being good at being people.
Dean pauses, reviewing what Alonzo just said.  He'd normally assume 'no one' means 'people who aren't authorized' or something, but Alonzo's expression implies he's being literal.  "No one?"
"She said theft and desperate people," Alonzo explains.  "Which makes sense, she's sleeping in there--"
"She's sleeping," Dean interrupts, "in food inventory?"
"In one of the warehouses, yeah," he agrees.  "Dean, I know it sounds weird but--Lanak's really into no one messing with her organization.  The salt beef thing...."
"But the bundles, she's doing it all herself?"  Alonzo nods, and Dean think of not even fucking five feet tall Lanak hauling around slabs of meat and bags of rice and just...can't.  "And she can't ask for help because...she doesn't want anyone in the warehouses, got it."
"If it helps," Alonzo offers, "we had a lot of food from the party, and the other towns and the Alliance sent a lot.  I helped unload the trucks. And I'm pretty sure she's got some helpers, I heard her talking to them yesterday when I did pick-up."
Brenda returns triumphantly with a carafe and fills it with coffee while Alonzo (after flipping the tortillas) gets a tray, and Dean sets aside the mystery of the food for later.  He's got eating food to do.
Cas emerges from his blanket mountain slowly and with vague hostility (usual) which melts into longing when Dean wisely fixes him a cup of coffee and hands it over.  Second cup, it's safe to transition to eating, and sitting cross-legged on the bed across from Cas, Dean goes through the messages while Cas scans the reports.  
Dean doesn't wonder when he became a person who read official messages in bed over breakfast with his boyfriend while said boyfriend reads reports of their very active yesterday.  He's that person now, what can you do?  
Between bites, Dean share the relevant info: general updates from Alison, Claudia, Tony, and Teresa and Manuel on the state of things and where they may be needed; still working on the geas thing; the checkpoints checked in this morning, and due to Cas taking care of the Hellhound and Croat problem with 'total annihilation' they'll be back by noon.
Cas (who cleaned his plate) has just set the tray on the end of the bed on the way to the shower when Dean hits the last one and is glad he already finished eating.
Cas," he says, keeping his voice steady. "They're--uh, doing the burn at dusk.  She wants to know about Andy."
Cas comes back to the bed, taking the note from Dean and reading on a vague glance before saying, "I'll speak to Sarah to discover Kat's wishes, but I'm fairly certain she'll say no."
And he could overrule her, yeah. "Tell Sarah to try and convince her," he decides reluctantly.  "Whatever Kat says, we'll let stand.  Can you get the answer to Alison by noon?"
"I will," he says folding the paper absently into halves, then quarters, then eighths before abruptly stating.  "I'm going to go visit Sudha this morning."
Right, that's today: after yesterday, a god being born upon the earth in mortal form almost seems kind of quaint.  "Yeah, almost forgot."
"It occurs to me...." He makes a face.  "Vera reminded me that if I wish to be present, it is incumbent on me to speak to Sudha at a time shes' not in active labor."
"Yeah," Dean says incredulously, leaving holy shit you left that until now? unspoken but really goddamn obvious.  "And by the way, how are you gonna do that without...you know, telling her why?  Assuming she doesn't know, and I gotta ask this--why wouldn't she know if she had to give consent?"
"I can think of several reasons that, if I were a barren woman who with divine intervention was to bear my first child, I might prefer to forget for a time," Cas answers.  "Pregnancy is stressful in ideal conditions which this is not.  Just as importantly, I would be deeply surprised if the god in question didn't at least mention there might be reasons its identity should remain unknown, and the best way to keep a secret like that is not to even know you know it."
Okay, that's fair.
Then Cas says, "It's not as if it matters."
"What?" He's never--even once--thought the birth of a god in mortal form could ever not matter.  "Just--what?"
"It's a baby," Cas says, like Dean missed biology and an entire life on earth or something and wasn't aware what pregnancy is supposed to accomplish.  "Unless the child in question is destined to usher in a new era for humankind--let's just say it's not for many reasons--it's going to be simply another child.  One who perhaps will be able to access some part of their divine powers--"
"Oh God, I didn't even think of that," Dean says in horror.  "We got a baby with superpowers?"
Cas stares at him. "I'm tempted to let you keep thinking that, but no.  At least, not until puberty at least, and in this town...." He trails off, and Dean thinks of the current residents: psychic, witch(es), visiting fallen angel, and that doesn't even include the pre-kindergarten set of future witches of the infected zone and fuck knows what else in the daycare.  "He or she might feel left out otherwise.  But in any case, the child will simply be Sudha and Rabin's offspring.  I can't possibly speculate with any certainty on Sudha's mind, but it being a former god is probably the least important thing to her."
Actually, he gets that.
"So if you aren't going to tell her why you want to be there," Dean says, returning to the much more fascinating (and goddamn hilarious) subject, "what are you going to tell her when she asks why you want to be there?"
Cas slumps.  "I have no idea."
Dean thinks about his next question.  "Look--why do you want to be there? I mean, what can you do if...?" The god's already dead (two years ago?) or can't get back or simply doesn't show up.
"I don't know that either, other than support Vera," he admits, and Dean nods agreement, pretending he doesn't notice Cas's not exactly subtle relief.  "Unless there's something else..."
"Go shower," Dean says, watching Cas leave (awesome view) before stacking up the messages and going to see what clothes he has in 'semi-clean or better'.
After seeing Cas off, saying hi to Joelle, and making an appearance in the mess to pointedly not mock anyone with hangovers, Dean settles in the Situation Room with Vicky and Derek in attendance.  He honestly has no idea why they're here (and from the way they were working when he came in, have been since dawn), but Vicky looks really into whatever she's doing on the laptop and Derek the boxes, so he nods at them (they nod back) and settles in to realize he needs more coffee.
"Get me some?" Vicky asks without looking up while Derek seconds (and looks up, he gets points for that).  "Thanks, Dean!"
"You got it," he says without irony (they don't notice), and grabs his cup, walking out the door and into--should have seen this coming--the goddamn giant white room.
For form's sake, he mutters, "What is with this building?" before finding a convenient place for his coffee cup.  Turning around, he surveys to see if there's anything new.
Giant mosaic floor, check; endless white walls, check; columns as far as the eye can see, check; it's impressive, don't get him wrong, but not like he hasn't seen it all before.  Looking up, he takes in the blue-painted ceiling miles away, sprinkled with countless tiny lights like stars, and wonders if those are actual constellations he should recognize.
He has just enough time to wonder which wall will win the picture lottery when color starts winding through the one on his right, seeping through the stone as if housed within and waiting for him to show up. Walking over, Dean settles in to watch; sure, he's seen it before, but honestly, he's seeing a theme here.
Demeter, dry-eyed and expressionless, hood thrown back, stands atop Mount Olympus and surveys the end of winter, arms limp at her sides but the long fingers are spread wide, tips slowly turning black; Clytemnestra seduces her lover in her husband's bed, but her gaze is fixed on an axe leaning against the far wall; Hecuba, in the dress of a common servant, prostrates herself before the King of Thrace and court, but her eyes are fixed on his two sons; Medea sits at the hearth in the home she once shared with Jason, patiently sewing an elaborate robe set with jewels, at her feet a coronet of gold, while the pot on the hearth exudes a noxious green mist.
The fifth picture opens on a well-paved country road and a mule cart with four mules, the Janiculum, one of the seven hills of Rome, just coming into view. Within, Sappho frowns at something in her lap, while beside her Cornelia exchanges amused glances with Publius, who sits across from them with his back to the driver.
"Latin and Greek, I understand, domina," Sappho says, raising the scroll from her lap to glare more closely at the endless columns. "Somewhat, at least. But this is both and neither one."
"It's rhetoric," Publius says, sprawled in comfort and grinning at her as the mule cart bumps merrily along the road.
"I understand each and every word of this, domine," Sappho persists, scowling. "At least, domina says it is thus."
"Careful," Cornelia says from beside her, exchanging a grin with Publius. "It's not supposed to make sense.  Not yet, anyway."
Sappho looks up with an attempt at being intimidated; she's bad at it.  "Forgive me, domina.  Perhaps I should ask: why do I need to learn this which makes no sense?"
"An excellent example of the use of rhetoric," Publius says seriously.  "Why does Sappho need learn rhetoric and the first principles of oratory?"
Sappho glares between them.  "That is not--according to this--a rhetorical question, for it advances no argument nor makes a point obvious to one and all, and also does indeed require an answer."  Almost immediately, she closes her eyes, and Cornelia bites her lip. "Domine. If it be your pleasure to answer."
"It seems you understand very well," Cornelia observes neutrally while Publius hides his grin by staring hard at the roof.  "You tell me, Sappho, why I instruct you in these skills?"
Sappho lets the scroll close and straightens, and Dean notes she looks a lot better with a dress that fits and a little meat on her bones, thick black hair long enough for it to be bound in a neat roll at the back of her neck.  "For my mistress's pleasure, I assume.  She grows bored with the obsequious attentions of Rome's greatest families and the Senate's intractability and requires entertainment.  My mistress's will is my life."
"Your recitation of Homer was sublime last night, and your accent impeccable," Cornelia agrees. "I was indeed entertained."
Sappho looks between the serious faces suspiciously.
"You also proved you've mastered the first principles of oratory," Cornelia continues.  "Acquire your audience's attention and hold it at your pleasure.  Now the real work begins: how to use it to forward your purposes, whatever those might be."
"I don't know what that means, domina," Sappho says seriously, deliberately adopting the Greek accent she'd had when she entered Cornelia's household, which makes Cornelia's mouth twitch despite the stern expression.  "And you will not tell me."
"When you're ready to hear the answer, you won't need to ask the question," Cornelia answers mock-severely before she smiles.  "I commend you in your studies, Sappho.  As quick as Sempronia, and she was only quicker than Tiberius and Gaius by a hair. Claudia, poor child, always struggled, and Licinia...." She sighs indulgently.  "Neither of their families valued education as they should.  The habit wasn't set early, and it's difficult to acquire that later.  I have no complaints, however; they are in all ways the ideal daughters-in-law."
"Because they are patrician on both sides," Sappho says confidently, and Dean guesses she's quoting someone.  "And of good family with rich dowries and excellent connections to Rome's most illustrious families."
Cornelia wrinkles her nose.  "In many families, yes, that would a consideration, and for some, that would be required.  The first duty of a Roman family is to increase their wealth, raise their status, and give lustre to their name. Children as much as their parents are servants of their family; ideally, their marriages should bring to the family what it cannot acquire otherwise to achieve those goals." She gives Publius a playful look and he rolls his eyes. Turning to Sappho she continues.  "My sons were of ancient plebian ancestry, however, and through me are descended from the patrician Cornelii and Aemilii; their lineage was illustrious enough without need for dressing."
Publius looks at her sardonically.  "And you of course never lusted for the acquisition of a Julia or perhaps a Fabia or Valeria--"
"A Julia and or a Valeria, I would have objected not at all, should my sons find them pleasing to take as wives," Cornelia states and by her expression, Dean is pretty sure Publius nailed it.  "A Fabia, no: I respect ancestry as any Roman should, but you cannot deny they are peculiar and grow more peculiar as the generations pass."
"You're thinking of Eburnus," Publius says, and Cornelia nods, looking--uncomfortable?  "He was adopted from the Servilii--"
"Not better," Cornelia states with a delicate shudder before turning to Sappho. "In your life, you will meet many kinds of people, good and bad and in-between, but every so often you will come across one and feel--as if your skin is trying to crawl away and cares not if you go with it."
Publius nods, looking thoughtful.  "That would be it, yes."
"Wisely, I agreed with my skin, excused myself, and walked quickly away," Cornelia continues.  "To return to a less unsettling topic, my sons had no need of a wife of high birth to give their names lustre or great wealth to fill their purse.  Their father and I agreed to allow them to select for themselves wives that would suit them and their ambitions.  Claudia and Licinia's families brought us important political alliances that forwarded my sons' purposes, but any of a dozen families could have done so; their persons pleased my sons and so they married them.  They are sweet-natured, kind, can both play and sing, have Latin and Greek--"
"And their beauty of no importance at all," Publius tells the ceiling of the cart. "We speak not of it, for what influence would it have on a young man?"
"Ye gods, do those families breed and very well," Cornelia mutters, shaking her head.  "But what choice did those children have, coming from such stables?  Licinia surpasses all, however: truly a face to launch a thousand ships.  If my son must be seduced by something as ephemeral as beauty, he did choose the best Rome had to offer."
"And no vanity to be found," Publius adds, sounding baffled.  "Once, when Gaius sent me to deliver a message to you in Misenum, I chanced upon her and Claudia playing a game in the peristyle garden and she fell into the fountain.  She was excessively muddy already and the water helped not at all.  She saw me and merely burst into laughter, tied her hair back with a convenient stick--a stick, Cornelia, it was on the ground, I saw it--and she continued their game with mud on the tip of her nose.  Far worse, it impaired her beauty not at all."  
Cornelia's mouth trembles despite the smile.  "Gaius was always a serious child, and Tiberius's death seemed to steal all that remained of his joy.  As a good son does, he brought Licinia to meet me before their betrothal was formalized, and...he was so different, I almost didn't recognize him.  She brought him joy for all their time together, and Claudia and Sempronia as well; my household is brighter for her presence."  She takes a quick breath, expression smoothing. "I won't ask what they played when you saw them; both are overly fond of children's games," she adds with a sigh.  "We bear what we must."
He tilts his head. "From what I heard, their number was often greater than two."  Cornelia's eyes narrow.  "Is it true, it took two hours for Cardixa and your maids to remove the sticks, leaves--and most inexplicably of all, wreathes of wilted flowers--from your hair?"
"I know not of what you speak nor what ridiculous rumors you have heard, but I put such games away in girlhood--"
"Tiberius and Gaius used to tell of how Cornelia Africana had no sense of direction when blindfolded and would fall into every fountain, pool, or puddle that may be within her lack of line of sight," Publius interrupts airily, and Cornelia's eyes widen.  "They would try to catch you, of course, but what you lacked in differentiating north from east and left from right you would make up for in speed.  Also, they were quite small--their twenties and early thirties, from what I heard?  Perhaps not so small as that."
"I did not--"
"Or three years ago, when Licinia finally quickened," Publius continues with relish, "and a solemn and dignified family celebration degenerated into a housewide game of hide and seek."
"That," Cornelia states, "is a falsehood."
"Lia," Publius says patiently, "I was the one who found you in the kitchens attempting without success to fit yourself inside a very small cupboard."
Cornelia looks struck.  "So you did.  My apologies: I need to better judge when and to whom I tell my lies.  How did you find me? I neglected to ask."
"You are one of the tallest women in Rome--no fault to your father, the Aemilii always grow their women large indeed--and yet," he looks at Sappho in despair, "she tries to fit in a cupboard dedicated to spices."
"I fit well," Cornelia protests as Sappho grins widely.  "One foot, perhaps--"
"I tripped over it."
Sappho looks between them, face red with the effort not to laugh.
"I have always been a friend of exercise," Cornelia says with dignity. "A healthy body is necessary for a healthy mind."  She sighs.  "I was too fond of games as a child, it is true, and at best an average student.  Forever wishing to go outdoors and explore the farms on our estate; I wonder my mother did not keep me at my books."
Publius puts on a constipated look, and Cornelia raises an eyebrow.  "Yes?"
"Nothing at all," he answers, careful to keep his expression as he share a look with Sappho.  "You are indeed average in all ways."
"Have I not said so?"  Cornelia gives them a repressive frown before suddenly smiling out one of the hide-covered windows, outside which an eager family waits by the road near what looks like an inn.  "Stop here," she calls to the driver.  "I know them."
As the mule cart comes to a halt, Publius peers out at them as Cornelia eagerly alights. "Wait for me," she tells Sappho, a small purse in one hand. "I'll be but a moment."
Sappho slides down the seat to peer out the window with Publius.  The husband steps forward eagerly as Cornelia joins them; from their simple clothes, Dean guesses they're farmers or something, though they seem to be doing well if the woman's earrings are any indication (thanks, jewelry store job, he notices that kind of thing now.  Jesus).  The man pushes forward a small boy, who grins up at Cornelia with a new space between his teeth, and careless of her skirts, she crouches, expression interested as he tells her--no idea.
"Domine, who are they?" Sappho asks blankly.  "How does she know them?  Surely they do not attend the interminable dinner parties we all enjoy so much every night?  If they are pretending to be farmers to escape those, I blame them not."
"For the first, no idea at all," Publius answers, lifting the hide more and shaking his head.  "For the second--if you ask her, she can tell you their names, ages, occupation, residence, ancestry, and choice of crops per season.  I would speculate how they met could have been anything, anything at all, and she could tell you that as well: date, time, weather, and what she had for her last meal beforehand." He puts on a long-suffering expression.  "You didn't ask how they knew she would be here today and wonder if perhaps they are people that simply spend their days lingering on the side of the road in hopes she will appear?  Possible, but no: child, the wonder isn't a family she knows happens to be here, but that there are not dozens spilling out of the woods who for no reason at all knew she would drive by this day."
Sappho blinks at him slowly.  "You speak truly?"
"I forget," he says. "Were you not in the Forum that day with her and go with her now when she leaves the house?"
"This is true," Sappho says in surprise. "I assumed it some peculiarity of Romans, who seem to appear as if summoned in great numbers whenever she appears on the streets.  Any street.  Or temple, shop, or beneath our loggia when she feels like taking air."
"It's always been so," Publius says, nodding.  "Where Cornelia Africana is, so the world will be as well."
"And she is average for a Roman noblewoman?"
"Her tutors must have forgotten to teach her the meaning of that word in the many languages she learned in girlhood, and she certainly never picked it up in any of the others," Publius says dryly.  "No, not at all. I suppose I can't fault Africanus or her mother; he was the best general Rome ever produced and a brilliant scholar in his own right, and married an Aemilia, an excellent woman I'm sure, but whose exceedingly high birth, sense of fashion, and air of distinction occupied much of her time and thought.  Still, when one's five year old--with a lisp, having lost two teeth--argues a Greek philosopher into the ground in one's tabilium, one would think Africanus would have wondered what it was he and Aemilia possessed in their second daughter."
Cornelia cups the child's cheek, leaning to give him a kiss, and rises to her feet as another man appears, well-dressed in a Greek chlamys, hand coming to rest on the boy's shoulder.  Opening the purse, Cornelia gives part of the contents to him, nodding at whatever he says interspersed with smiling down at the boy, reaching to ruffle his hair.
"Pedagogue, yes," Publius says with gloomy satisfaction.  "I should have guessed: no escape now, that child will be educated and set on the path of greatness will he, nil he. I should discover his gens before we leave: when he runs for consul, he'll certainly get my vote." Cornelia takes the baby from the woman, looking down at it with a soft smile before saying something to the mother, who nods adamantly.  "That," Publius says with certainty, "is the first daughter of the house, and Cornelia is reminding its mother that daughters must be educated with the sons, for they should be partners with their men in all things, and it is never known if they will lose father and husband too soon and must be able to read business correspondence and do accounts and such and be protected from encroaching in-laws who might try to steal their dowry."
"Does that happen often?" Sappho asks, startled.  "I thought in Rome...Cornelia told me women own property in their own right and it cannot be taken by law."
"She's correct," Publius says quietly, looking at her.  "But if they do not know the law--or cannot read their marriage contracts--how would they know their rights?  It's a father's and brother's duty to protect the interests of their women, but if they don't--or are deceased--who will speak for them?"  He snorts contemptuously.  "Young girls newly married are tempted by sweet words from less than honorable men to sign what they do not understand and find their dowry gone and themselves without recourse if divorced or widowed.  A good husband, a good father by marriage would insist her dowry be protected and inheritable only by their children--should they be so fortunate as to have any--and assure their will leaves her well-supported on the occasion of one or both their deaths.  And many do, do not mistake me, but Roman men are still men, good and bad.  We may think the best of our fellow man, Sappho, but in Rome, we think the best of them and enforce it with a legally binding contract into perpetuity."
Cornelia hands the child back and gives the mother some money from her purse.  With a fond smile at the child, she takes her leave of them, returning to the cart with a wide smile on her face, years shed so suddenly she almost seems a girl.
"A fine daughter," Cornelia says approvingly as the cart continues, and Publius and Sappho share a glance.  "The son makes excellent progress, but that's no surprise; the child's grandfather was my father's body servant and was very quick indeed.  He was freed in my father's will, of course, and entered my husband's service as a freedman on my marriage.  For his good work, we paid to have him placed in a rural tribe instead of one of the urban ones so his vote would count.  Well educated men who think are needed by Rome.  Would that we do away entirely with the bias that places freedman in the four urban tribes; no matter the citizenship of their birth, they are Roman now."  Cornelia makes a face. "Ridiculous."
"Cornelians, then," Publius says, and Cornelia nods.
"Of course. My father freed him in his will and thus, he was entitled to our gens: Publius Cornelius Artabanus."  The cart comes to an abrupt stop, and her expression changes, color draining away.  "I'll only be a moment," she says quietly.  "Please await me here.  I want to see how the temple is progressing; it should be complete very soon."
It's an order, quietly spoken but unmistakable, and beside him, Dean feels his usual companion's presence.  "Where's she going?  What temple?"
She swallows as Cornelia climbs out, eyes fixed on something he can't quite see.  "The one she's building in Gaius's honor in the Grove of the Furies."
Dean watches Cornelia start toward the grove then the scene abruptly vanishes just as she passes the first tree. It's not that he wanted to watch Cornelia go look at where her son died, but.... "Did you do that?"
"No," she says with a frown.  "I didn't."
Dean vaguely remembers Cas telling him about angels having privileges in holy places. "Is it because it's--sacred or something?  Furies wouldn't like it?"  From what he knows about Furies, not the kind you want to piss off, ever.
"And no mortal eyes may behold?" she asks. "No, nothing like that, and that wouldn't count here, anyway."
Dean thinks vaguely about leaving, but--  "So we wait?"
"I suppose," she answers, sounding as bewildered as he is.  "As we have time, I've been curious about--you don't have to answer, of course.  Freely asked, freely given."
"Help if I knew the question," he points out.
She makes a face.  "Tell me about now?  Anything," she clarifies at his blank look.  "I can't see much--still not omnipotent--but from what little I have seen, it's...different."
Well yeah; about two thousand years difference, give or take.  "I can do that," he agrees, though that means he has figure out where to start.
Thank God, she takes pity on him and says, "Your army.  Militia, I mean."  
Or, this is exactly what she wanted to ask all along and was trying to ease into it.  "Okay," he says, and tries to decide where to start. "So you know what a hunter is?"
She tilts her head.  "Your militia hunts for meat?"
"Yeah, no," he says, though technically, they do that, too.  "We'll start there."
Castiel's entry into Ichabod's working hospital is heralded by a small mass of humanity barreling directly into his legs.  Looking down, he sees two year old Sera looking up at him, flyaway black hair escaping a braid and grinning to reveal all six and a half of her teeth.
"Good morning," he says politely.  She giggles before lifting both arms in the imperative command known as 'pick me up immediately' (Lily and Dee were very educational on this).
Crouching, Castiel obeys, settling her warm weight in his arms as she relates absolutely nothing he can understanding in a mixture of English and Cantonese.
"Sera!" Anyi says, appearing from a nearby hallway, carrying a faded pink child-sized coat and stocking cap and looking frazzled.  Her worried expression changes to relieved when she sees Sera.  "Cas, hey, morning.  She got away from me, sorry."
"Not a problem at all," he says, quickly returning his attention to Sera when tiny wet fingers land on his cheek, which Lily taught him is the command 'look at me or I'll scream at a decibel that only dogs, whales, and supermassive black holes can achieve'. It's extraordinarily effective.  "Yes," he tells her (the word 'coat' was in there, he thinks). "I have one as well."
Sera nods, satisfied, and drops her head onto his shoulder with a very loud, wet sniffle.
"Cold," Anyi tells him, brown eyes softening as she pushes back a strand of her daughter's hair.  "It's going around the daycare. Again."
"How is she adjusting?" he asks when a tiny arm tighten like a vise when he thinks about returning her to her mother.  From what he understands, human toddlers are acutely sensitive to anything that might contravene their will, including thought.
Anyi grins.  "Great.  And how are you doing?" she asks, eyes darting to his right forearm as if she can see the bandage beneath.  
"It's fine," he says, pausing for Sera to sneeze wetly and Anyi to make a horrified face. "Don't concern yourself; body fluids of are no concern to me."
She cocks her head. "Angel thing?"
"Chitaqua thing," he admits, helping her unwind the (iron-like) arms wrapped around his neck as Any murmurs to her in Cantonese and Sera protesting in the same language with added toddler (a language of its own). With a look of tragic betrayal (at him), she sneezes pointedly, sticks her thumb in her mouth, and settles against Anyi's shoulder to assure he can still see her displeasure in case he forgets.  "When did you start teaching her Cantonese?"
"When I was provisionally approved a couple of weeks ago," she says, hefting Sera against her hip.  "Glenn helped me make her some simple picture books. Shuo's the only other native speaker here, so it's kind of nice to have someone else to talk to."
"She's a quick learner," he says; children at this age generally are, reaching out to touch Sera's cheek in what he hopes she correctly interprets as a peace offering.  She seems to debate it--several long, noisy sucks--before bursting into wet giggles followed by another enthusiastic sneeze.  "I apologize," he says, aware of Anyi's odd smile.  "I don't mean to detain you."
"It's cool," she says, looking at him thoughtfully.  "Didn't realize you were a kid person."
Dog person, cat person, gun person, knife person: he thinks he can extrapolate.  "I didn't realize I was," he confesses as Sera grabs his finger, eyes huge and liquid as she urges it toward her tooth filled mouth, rather like a Venus flytrap exuding a pleasing scent before consuming you.  "Lily already tried that," he tells her firmly before she can demonstrate her mastication skills, pulling back and ignoring her heartbreak with difficulty.  "Are you going on duty now?"
"After we have breakfast and I drop her off in the official Cold Room at the daycare," she says.  "Speaking of, I better run.  Sera, say bye-bye?"
Sera considers it before lifting her hand in the single most condescending gesture he's ever seen by anyone below the age of reason.
"Have a good day," he tells them both, turning to watch as Anyi pauses at a nearby chair to wrestle the child into her coat and hat before going out the door and into the early morning chill.  
Looking around the lobby, he notes the number of children with their parents--most Ichabod, some Alliance, some he assumes are from the refugees--and firmly tamps down the flare of anger; so many here came with their children, dependent on strangers to feed and house them and see to their medical needs. If the migration was justified in itself, nothing can excuse the a geas so badly designed as this one; it's only luck that so far, no children have been casualties.
"Cas?" a familiar voice asks, and Castiel sees Vera at the open door of the ER with four charts. "What are you doing here?"
"I could ask you the same question," he answers, doing the math on how much she slept last night very obviously. She make a face.  "How long have you been on duty?"
"Half an hour before dawn, only for another thirty minutes, and just my existing patients," she says, transparently pretending she's not being very defensive.  "Pneumonia's responding, everyone's healing well, and my three Diabetes Type II are stable and doing great." Then, "Oh, forgot about that. Come on."
Following her across the ER, they end up in yet another warren-like room (these buildings are overly fond of calling glorified closets 'room's, but it does benefit from a window.  Retrieving a file from a locked drawer of one of the many utterly identical cabinets stuffed into all available space, she scans down it, mouth tightening.  
"No change," she says, handing it to him to look over.  She taught him to read Dean's charts, and Alicia furthered his education with his own, so it's fairly easy to interpret both the medical terminology as well as the style of Vera's notes.  "I will say this; she's doing great, baby's doing great, no problems except four days in first stage labor without any progress."  She leans against an overcrowded desk where Castiel guesses Dolores avoids doing paperwork, as it has no chair.  "Today?"
"Loosely, in the next twenty-four hours," he answers.  "This isn't an exact science--or any science really, at least yet.  Keep her under constant supervision starting at midnight if it hasn't begun yet."
"I probably should have asked this before," she says, crossing her arms. "But is the labor going to be--normal?  Or put it another way; is it going to be 'water breaking wow baby' or is it following the general stages of labor?"
"The latter," he says reassuringly, closing the folder and handing it back.  "It should follow whatever qualifies as average.  Would you like me to wait with you this evening after the fire, or...?"
"Yeah, no." She shakes her head firmly. "Rule of thumb: hovering makes people nervous, and the only person who can hover over her right now and not do that is Rabin. You're one street away and pretty fast; I think you'll be okay."
"Who has she asked to be present at the birth?"
Vera thinks. "Alison, Neeraja, Deepika, Mercedes--on a guess, she's going to be using this as a preview of coming events--Suma, and Njoya."  She hesitates, biting her lip.  "She also asked Cathy."
Her newborn daughter Del was one of those killed at the daycare during the attack on Ichabod.  "I don't know enough to even form an opinion," he admits.
"Cultivate that," Vera advises him.  "It's a rare and very valuable trait.  I don't know either, to be honest. Alicia thought it was a good idea, though, if that helps.  Give her something to focus on outside herself and not get lost in her own head, and yes, that's a quote."
Castiel remembers her reaction to seeing Cathy on New Year's Eve.  "They're friends?"
"I guess.  They've been meeting for a meal every day since we got here, whenever they're both off duty," Vera answers with a shrug.  "Dolores told me Alicia was really helpful when she was here after the attack."  She takes a deep breath, meeting Castiel's eyes.  "There's no records on who works isolation, it's everyone and no one, you know?"
He nods.
"When--when Dolores came by about Andy, Alicia said--"
"She'd done it before," he finishes for her.  "Evelyn mentioned it.  So she worked isolation?"
"No one will confirm or deny it, obviously, and I haven't talked to Alicia, but...yeah, I'm pretty sure that's what she was talking about.  And from the way Dolores reacted when I implied I might want to ask, I'm going to guess it was kids.  For obvious reasons, that area is under guard, back stairs, go in and out fully suited, and no one--and I do mean no one--knows who does it other than Dolores, who approves them."  She shifts uncomfortably.  "Cas, it's not a popular job, and I'm going to tell you now, from what I heard around here, I'm not sure anyone living in Ichabod was in any condition to take care of it after the attack."
He didn't think of that; then again, he didn't know very much about children then.  Vera gives him a searching look.  "If she was the only one...she never talked about it?"
"Not to her team," he answers evasively, thinking of Kyle with even less affection than before; he didn't realize that was possible.  Vera's expression tells him she was fully regaled with the unsettling saga of Alicia and Kyle when she returned from Alpha, and now has some very strong opinions on the subject as well.  "Let me speak to Dean.  I'm not sure--about anything related to that.  In any case, I'd rather not disturb what little peace she and her team have now."
"She'll want to go back on duty ASAP," Vera says, which doesn't surprise him at all.  "And no medical reason not to, in case you were hopeful.  Ankle will be fine with a brace, so she's clear for wall duty or anything not requiring a lot of running or heavy lifting.  I'll be honest; when she reports for duty, just nod and assign them something to do."
"I'll have Victoria revise the patrol schedule," he agrees distractedly.  "Thank you for your help.  I should go speak to Sudha now, I suppose.."
Vera's troubled expression mutates into unmistakable malice. "Decided how to ask yet?"
"No," he says in resignation.  "I'll think on the way.  Now where is her room again?"
"So that is why an Egyptian physician sees to the Lady Licinia today?" Sappho says in surprise.
"Priest," Publius corrects her, and Dean can see from Cornelia's more relaxed expression they've been doing their damndest to distract her.  "High priest, if I'm not mistaken."
"You are mistaken," Cornelia answers with a frown while Publius grins back, unrepentant.  "He is a priest-physician of the priestly caste in Egypt, trained in Memphis and assigned to Egypt's Ambassador during their stay in Rome.  And I wish you would not fill Sappho's ears with ancient history that cannot possibly be of interest."
"The King of Egypt sued for your hand in marriage, domina," Sappho says incredulously, tacking on the domina as an afterthought.  "That cannot possibly lack interest no matter the point in time in which it happened."
Cornelia sighs. "He was but a boy--"
"He was almost thirty," Publius interjects blandly.  "Firm of limb, full of flesh--though not so much as he is now, if his nickname is to be believed--and not unattractive.  Quite popular among our young girls, who sighed every time he displayed himself upon the streets."
Cornelia's eyes narrow.  "He wasn't serious--"
"He pursued you at any and every opportunity not limited to appearing on whatever street you may have occupied, complete with entourage: subtle, he was not," Publius interrupts.  "He sued for your hand more assiduously than he bleated to the Senate to give him his crown!"
Cornelia makes a face.  "He was probably bored--"
"He brought you an entire collection of the works of Praxiteles to lay at your feet," Publius answers.  "Four crowns, a chest of jewelry--"
"I don't wear jewelry," Cornelia interrupts, her expression reflecting even she questions the relevance.  "And they were--artistic representations of crowns, not real ones. Alexandria is Hellenistic: they wear the white ribbon diadem to denote their sovereignty unless they are also Pharaoh, and then wear the double crown while in Egypt proper.  Which I remind you, Ptolemy was not."
"I stand corrected," Publius concedes solemnly, eyes bright.  "A tutor to instruct you in Hieratic and Demotic Egyptian, copies of their great works when you expressed interest--"
"That," Cornelia says positively, "was very welcome indeed.  Their hieroglyphs are fascinating. In fact, I recently received an obscure work that was apparently written by a young Athenian scholar who seemed to be fluent in both Demotic and Hieratic.  I must say, I'm looking forward to when I have the leisure to review it--"
"And of course, offering to have you raised to Pharaoh of Egypt, reincarnation of Isis and god on earth," Publius finishes triumphantly, and Cornelia slumps back into her seat, looking pained.
"He was going to make you a god?" Sappho exclaims, losing the domina entirely, which he can't blame her, because what?
"He couldn't make me a god--or Pharaoh," Cornelia scoffs.  "Only Egypt's priesthood could do so."
"A god?" Sappho says helplessly.  "Egypt's priesthood can make one a god?"
"They can.  That would be why he offered a letter from the high priest," Publius says in satisfaction.  "Years of study, something something, and she'd be anointed on the very banks of the Nile which would Inundate in her honor.  So, a week after you entered Memphis, provided you slept regularly--which is of doubt--you'd be anointed Pharaoh, graced with the double crown, and be worshipped by all of Egypt.  And you'd also be Queen of Alexandria, of course, famous for its library." He notes Cornelia's conflicted expression in satisfaction.  "Greatest in the world.  It could have been yours, think on that."
"A god," Sappho repeats blankly.  "On earth."
"They say every book ever published is within its walls," Cornelia murmurs wistfully.  "Margites may be there, who's to say?  The poet Sappho's lost epics and those of her students, even the works of the great empires of the East are said to be within.  Imagine having access to the Librarian's private library."  She sighs, shaking her head. "Not even a god would be permitted that.  I would have tried, however."
"God," Sappho says clearly. "On.  Earth.  Domina."
"And controlling the Nile on a whim," Publius agrees, and Cornelia rolls her eyes. "Thus bringing fertility to all Egypt."
"Why did you refuse?" Sappho asks. "To be god on earth and marry a king?  And be god on earth? Domina."
Cornelia sighs, slumping back in her seat. "I have no desire to be a god, for one.  For another--I have a husband."
"But he is dead," Sappho says and looks sorry she said it, but Cornelia's expression doesn't change.  "Roman women marry more than once--consecutively, not concurrently, of course--so why not you?"
Cornelia is quiet for a long moment, eyes thoughtful; even Publius is silent, watching her carefully.
"My father arranged my betrothal before he died," she answers slowly.  "Like my sister, he would not allow marriage before the proper age of eighteen and my betrothal contract stated it clearly.  He called me to his tabilium and gave me a list of suitors he deemed suitable for my hand and asked me to remove those I found objectionable; I removed twelve, which he said helped not at all, as the list was long and greater than one page." She shakes her head when Sappho looks impressed. "I am a Cornelia, daughter of Africanus, and patrician on both sides from ancient families who've served Rome since she began, and my dowry was rich; every man of suitable age--as in, not dead, married or not--sued for my hand.  Most had never seen me, and even fewer could have picked me from a crowd.  Nor was I ever pretty, so memorable I was not."
The words are spoken with amusement, not pain, but Sappho frowns, eyes flickering to Publius before fixing on Cornelia again.  "Did your father see you married?"
"No, I was seven when he died."  Sappho looks at Publius helplessly while Dean tries to imagine being seven and given a list of potential husbands to check out.  And know what that meant, much less do it.  "Gracchus was far older than I, of course--he was forty-five at our marriage, had been praetor and consul in his time--but he told my father he saw no reason to marry to forward his path up the cursus honorium.  Which," she adds, "he should have done even with his ancestry.  Nothing helps a man so much in politics as a well-educated wife of good family and wide connections.  Yet he was content to wait."
"When did you first meet?" Sappho asks softly.
"I met him on the day of our marriage, as is tradition," Cornelia answers, eyes distant.  "We were permitted correspondence, of course, as is proper between a man and his betrothed wife.  I wrote of my life and my studies, and he suggested appropriate tutors, which of course my mother and paterfamilias acquired for me immediately. Sometimes, he would ask me questions about different policies he was working on and would send me his laws before submitting them to the Plebian Assembly or Senate so I could review them and better understand his work.  He said that as we would share a life soon, he would know my mind and I his, and so I was to note what I thought about what I read and leave nothing out.  If I felt it needed correction, I was to do so, and if I was wrong, it could only be to my benefit to find out why."
Publius sternly represses a smile.  "He corrected you often?"
"Not past my fifteenth year," she answers carelessly and all Dean can think is she really doesn't know what 'average' means.  "I told him it would be easier if I had a tutor who could teach me not just the law itself but politics both committal and senatorial.  He sent one, I learned all he could teach me, and to prove my mastery, Gracchus sent me the summary of a minor--and senatorially controversial--agriculture bill to frame correctly as if it would be presented to the Senate and the People, and I was to also frame how to get it passed.  Simple enough: I framed the bill so it was legally immaculate, wrote the introductory speech, the arguments that should be used and the counters to all possible opposition, and listed the two Tribunes of the Plebs that were in need of funds and would require a moderate bribe and the mistress of a senator I shall not name but held the votes of a dozen backbenchers who required a necklet of carnelian stones.  It was an interesting exercise; I enjoyed it a great deal."
Sappho licks her lips.  "When you finally met?  Was he to your taste despite his advanced age?"
"What had age to do with it?" Cornelia asks, exchanging an amused look with Publius.  "His family, education, temperament, and ethics suited me in all ways, and his mind--only our sons could surpass him.  If we must be vulgar, then yes, I found him very pleasing in his person as well." She shakes herself.  "I was with my women when my mother brought to my sitting room.  I saw him, tall and dignified in his toga praetexa, holding my bride-gift, and all I could think is he would be disappointed when he compared me to my women, all of whom were far prettier than I."  She rolls her eyes at her younger self.  "And then he looked right at me and smiled, and said my name--it was so strange," she says softly. "It was as if he saw no one else. Senator, praetor, general, and consul, and he tripped over the rug on his way to me and almost dropped his bride-gift."  Cornelia lowers her head, but Dean can see the blush.  "All marriages take work, of course, but Gracchus--it was as if I'd known him all my life, instead of merely well over half through our letters.  I loved him the twenty years of our marriage, and I love him no less in death."
Sappho surreptitiously wipes her eyes, and Publius stares hard at the roof of the cart like maybe he wants to avoid that shit.
"He would not have you marry again?" Sappho asks finally.
"Of course he would," Cornelia answers.  "At his death, he made that much very clear.  My first marriage was not of my choice, but my second was to be my choice alone.  Tradition would not bind me any farther than I allowed it; I would marry or not as I willed.  His last act as my husband and paterfamilias was to order me not to hesitate but become again a happy wife if I found a man that suited me."
"But you did not. Domina," Sappho adds vaguely.
"I had many suitors," she says, laughter in her voice.  "I was still young, fecund with six children living, of patrician ancestry on both sides, the daughter of Africanus and relic of the Gracchi, and very, very, very rich." She give Sappho a mischievous smile. "An irresistible combination indeed.  They told me I was beautiful," she snorts, startling Sappho and making Publius grin, "intelligent, educated, accomplished, cultured, and that I embodied all the virtues--half of which they made up on the spot--while thinking lustfully of the balances within my bank accounts and my numerous properties, and calculating my dowry to the last sestertius."
"Lia," Publius says in mock-horror, "you do not do them justice.  I can assure you, they were just as entranced by the thought of their future progeny claiming descent from Africanus."
"Granted," she agrees with dignity, catching Sappho's eye.  "Not one, however, brought me as bride-gift the law I'd written wrapped in red ribbon, on which he'd erased its formally recorded name and wrote in his own hand lex Cornelia Africana Senatus Triumpha.  What I sent him that day, he left unchanged, and took it to the Senate, where it was recommended to the Plebian Assembly by an overwhelming majority, and they passed it without a single veto.  With it were the recorded notes from the Senate meeting and during the debates of the Plebian Assembly for me to review at my leisure.  It was considered an extraordinarily well-written law, apparently."  She looks at her companions.  "I think--though nothing is certain but death and magisterial extortion--that I shall remain a widow to the end of my days."
Sappho nods slowly.  "I wish I could have known him, domina.  Would you tell us more?"
Cornelia smiles at them.  "Of course, if you're prepared to be very bored."
"I could never grow bored listening to you," Sappho answers, settling in her seat.  "Whatever you chose to say."
"They were a great love story," Dean's companion says softly.  "It was not always thus with marriages of those of our class, though true disasters were rare.  But all knew it who looked at them."
They arrive at the house only moments later, and Sappho, once certain that Cornelia is out of earshot, asks Publius, "Domine, is it like she knows not what 'average' means when she says she is not pretty?"
Publius represses a smile.  "Why do you think so?"
"Do you not have eyes, domine?" Sappho demands.  "She is of great beauty.  This Gracchus was fortunate indeed in having such a wife."
Publius makes a choked sound.  "My eyes are old, Sappho, but now that I think on the matter, you are correct.  Gracchus said the same of her."
"I should hope he did," Sappho says, mollified.  "You are wiser than those who told her otherwise.  Fools.  Fellatores.  Mentulas."  Publius suppresses a laugh with visible effort, face red.  "My thanks, domine.  I am pleased not to be mistaken in your good character."
"I am truly grateful to know you think well of me," Publius manages, straight-faced.
As they come in the house, Cornelia nods to the sour looking steward as she hands over her cloak, and Dean sees Sappho's eyes fix on him for a moment, thoughtful.  "Your--guest," the steward says even more sourly still, adding an edge of contempt to the noun, "is waiting in the tabilium."
"Thank you," she says graciously.  "Publius, you will stay to dinner, of course?"
"Of course," he says, pulling a face. "You save me a fortune in meals, or should; the bills from the market grow no smaller, yet my servants grow fatter.  Passing strange."
"Entertain yourself as you will," she says, making a face at him.  
"I thought," he says, eyes fixing on some point on the frescoed ceiling, "that I might go to the markets and acquire a few meat pies while I wait.  Pastry stuffed with mutton, goat cheese, and fresh mushrooms, fried in oil.  I've heard them called unwholesome, but at my age, I care not."
Cornelia stares at him and surreptitiously licks her lips  "Four."
"Cardixa," he observes, "will like it not."
"It shall be our secret," Cornelia says, smiling conspiratorially at Sappho. "And bring some for Sappho as well, as a reward for her good nature and discretion."
"I would like two, domine," Sappho says firmly and Dean sees the steward--who is already not his favorite person--look scornful.  That guy, he suspects, needs to try out a new expression: maybe a punch or two would help with that.
"Well done.  You grow more Roman by the day," Publius says approvingly as he starts toward the door. "We all wish to do well by our fellow man, but it hurts not at all for our fellow man to reward us with something more substantial than mere gratitude."
"I will see you then."  Turning as the door shuts, Cornelia sees Cardixa appear, looking grim, and her smile fades.  "What's wrong?"
Cardixa hesitates.  "Licinia."
Castiel's attempt at surreptitious observation fails before it even begins; Sudha looks up before he even reaches the door, reaching up to push a strand of dark brown hair behind her ear.
"Cas," she says in Hindi, reaching to rub her back with a faint frown.  "Come in," she adds, waving to him as she makes another firm circle of the room.  "How are you this morning?"
"I was about to ask you the same question," he answers in the same language, closing the door, and firmly averts his eyes from the large round protrusion of her abdomen.  Human gestation never ceases to amaze him, and in this case, seeing a woman whose pregnancy makes her nearly as wide as she tall is--unusual.  
Making her way back to the bed, she takes his extended hand to ease herself back down onto the mattress and gives him a wry smile.  "You can look," she says, gazing down at her own body in amusement.  "I still find it somewhat surprising myself, and I've had months to accustom myself."  She nods toward the only chair.  "Please, sit."
"Thank you."  Pulling the chair closer to the bed, he tries once again to decide how to broach the subject (he'd hoped Dean would be of help, being human, but no).  The mother always survives, he reminds himself; in all of history, no god has ever broken this most sacred trust with their worshippers, and he cannot--will not--believe that this one would take the time to give her this and then allow Lucifer to kill them before they could complete the covenant.  Surely even gods can manage that much.
Faith: that doesn't mean those of them on earth should not do their best to help assure success.  Though how he's to do that is still something of a mystery.
"Cas?" Sudha says, and he sets aside his own concerns at the thread of worry in her voice, smiling at her and seeing her relax.  "Is everything--" She breaks off, hand going to her stomach and looking down; following her gaze, he watches incredulously as a tiny bulge pushes up beneath the thin material of her colorful cotton kurta and loosely-cut paijamas.  "She's active today," Sudha says with a grin, looking at him and extending an imperative hand.  "Here."
Startled, he gives her his hand, and she carefully places it on the curve of her belly.  "Wait," she tells him, covering his hand with her own, and even having seen it, Castiel stills when he feels the firm press of something very like a tiny fist against his palm.  Forgetting himself, he scoots his chair closer, letting her move his hand as she wills across her abdomen, mouth dry at the feel of activity beneath the surface of her skin.  
"I think they're becoming impatient," Sudha tells him softly, and looking up, he sees her soft smile, face alight from within. "I can't argue the point; I'm rather impatient to meet them myself."
He looks into the warm brown eyes and what words he has vanish; he can't tell her what he suspects and steal away any part of her joy.
"Is something wrong?" she asks, smile fading.
"Not at all," he says.  "I would like permission to be present during your labor and the birth."
She blinks at him, and yes, he does know it could have been done better, but it could have also been done far, far worse.
"There are a limited number of medical personnel," he hears himself way, lips shaping words that seem to come from the ether.  "Vera is my doctor and I assisted her when Dean was ill and she taught me a great deal.  As she'll be attending on you--if she needs assistance--I can...do that."
Sudha slowly raises an eyebrow.
"I won't violate your privacy or modesty," he continues, unable to discover where the words are coming from, much less stop them. "Two of my former vessels bore offspring prior to my time with them.  I did have access to their memories, however, and...that might be of help."  Not better.  "Traditionally, the Host would attend women in labor who were in--challenging circumstances, to bring them comfort with our presence."
Sudha looks surprised.  "I didn't know that."
"Oh yes," he says, nodding hopefully; it has happened, after all.  "While I'm no longer an angel, of course, it's...." Now the words stop: why?
Sudha's surprise melts into sympathy, and inexplicably, she pats his hand. "I forgot about that," she says, tilting her head to give him a (very kind) smile.  "Of course you can."
Castiel just stops himself from asking what she forgot and why she's looking at him as if she just heard his personal canine was unfortunately flattened on some sort of road.  He's not stupid.  "Thank you," he says sincerely.  "I'm honored by your trust."
"The honor is mine," she answers before she sighs.  "I should finish packing."
"Packing?" he asks, then realizes there's an open bag on the bed, half-filled, and another near the door. "Where are you going?"
"The third floor," she says with another sigh, then shakes her head.  "Quieter, and farther from the isolation rooms and the ER.  The east wing is as done as it's going to be, and there's at least two other women who will be giving birth within the next few days, so we're all being put together."
He nods in understanding at the very timely sound of someone yelling in the near distance.  "Tell me what you want packed," he offers when she looks half-heartedly around the room.
"Just what's in the file cabinet-dresser," she says, pointing toward the corner where a battered metal file cabinet is slumping against the wall. "Rabin finished moving the furniture I needed last night."
Taking her bag, he opens the file cabinet and carefully begins to remove the remaining clothing.  
"I forgot to ask," she says.  "Has Nate returned yet?"
"Not yet," he says absently, checking the remaining drawers and finding them empty.  "They should return at noon...." He stops short closing the bottom drawer and turns to look at her. "You met Nate?"
"He introduced himself a couple of days ago," she answers, bracing a hand behind her and frowning down at what must be some very interesting activity occurring within her.  "Your militia is very friendly."
"I'm pleased that you think so," he agrees, closing the drawer carefully.  "Nate was pleasant?"
"Very much so," she answers as Castiel extends a hand and helps her to her feet before getting her other bag himself.  "In case I don't see him soon, would you thank him for me?"
"Of course," Castiel answers, waiting for her to precede him out the door.  "If it isn't an intrusion--could I know what I'm to thank him for?"
"The room," she answers, and Castiel just avoids walking into the doorframe. "We're stretched a little thin for help, but Nate said he could have them ready in time for us.  He even asked what color I'd prefer for the walls.  I haven't seen it yet," she adds, looking at him.  "Want to come with me?"
Castiel look from her to the stairs.  "Yes, I would."
"She escaped her silly maid," Cardixa says, looking grimmer still. "My own fault, Lia; I knew better than to leave Licinia in the care of that stupid chit while I met with the physician.  It was no more than half an hour, but...."
"Licinia's very skilled in escaping," Cornelia says, squeezing her maid's shoulder. "Where was she?"
"Walking into the Tiber."  Cornelia closes her eyes, taking a deep breath.  "Several men on the docks saw her and rescued her and returned her to us."
Cornelia's jaw tightens.  "We won't be able to conceal that--"
"It is already done," Cardixa interrupts, meeting Cornelia's eyes.  "I know not how, but they concealed her well and substituted a dead mule in the Tiber to explain if someone saw something--the man who came with them promised me not so much as a whisper shall reach any ears and any tongue that speaks of it will be removed before they can complete a single word."
"They shall be rewarded, of course. Their names--"
"None would give them nor accept reward.  They said to tell you that Rome will protect you always."  Cardixa hesitates.  "The man who spoke--I recognized him. He's custodian of a Crossroads College in the Subura.  He says a freedman who has no business on the Palatine is often to be found here, though why he doesn't know, and he has far too much money to spend and is far too free with it as well. He said to give you this." Cardixa reaches out, and Cornelia opens her hand to receive a handful of twigs and dried wood.  "He said to tell you, 'For remembrance'."
Cornelia looks at it for a long moment, then closes her fingers around it with an unreadable expression before she takes out her purse, placing it inside. "Thank you.  Go give orders for dinner while I meet with the physician.  See what we have to prepare Licinia's favorite dishes tonight to tempt her appetite."
"Yes, domina." Cardixa glances at Sappho sternly before looking at Cornelia with obvious significance.  Sappho nods, sliding into Cornelia's shadow and seeming to almost vanish as she follows her into the tabilium.
"Emet," Cornelia says with a warm smile as the man rises, wearing Greek dress but with his head shaved bare, and it's only Sappho's bewildered expression that tells him Cornelia's speaking demotic Egyptian, not Greek.  "Thank you for coming."
"For you, Lady," Emet responds in the same language, bowing low over her hand, "no request would be denied."
"Please be seated."  As they arrange themselves, Cornelia folds her hands neatly in the folds of her skirts.  "Is there anything you can do for her?"
He meets her eyes, and his expression says everything before he speaks a word.  "Diseases of the mind are unknown by any but the gods; her condition, in my experience, is a progressive one.  She will soon not know her mind at all." Cornelia nods, expression unchanged.  "I will say this; after speaking to all your household, I suspect something--I know not what--is making her condition far worse than it should be at this stage, and it eats at her.  My recommendation is to remove her to the country with only her most loyal servants and friends in attendance, those who knew Gaius Sempronius and loved him as she did, so she may talk of him and hear of him and feel him near her.  I cannot promise she will grow better, or that she will not grow worse, but the progression could be slowed, and you will have more time with her."
Cornelia nods.  "I understand."
"I left your Cardixa with medication that will soothe her without causing lethargy," Emet says.  "The recipe I gave her as well.  Some items are difficult to get in Rome proper, but send to the Ambassador of your need and we will acquire it for you."
"You are kind, Emet," Cornelia says, smiling and extending her hand, which he rises and takes eagerly.  "Please offer the Ambassador my thanks as well."
"My King worries for you," Emet says quietly.  "He would remind you he likes his wife not and should you wish for a change of air and a loving husband, Alexandria and Memphis are known for their good health."
Cornelia laughs softly, genuinely.  "Tell the King our chess game is still on hold in Misenum, and I await his next move."
"I think," Emet says, smiling back, "that he makes it now.  I will return in two days' time to assess Licinia's condition."
"And stay to dinner," she says, rising to her feet.  "And the Ambassador as well.  He's only just returned from Alexandria, I understand, and I would like to hear how his visit prospered."
Emet tilts his head thoughtfully.  "Your Roman nobleman will like that not."
"They'll survive infra dignitatem by proxy admirably, I assure you," she answers wryly.  "Did my idiot steward offer you no refreshment?  Let me call for--"
A scream cuts her off, and Dean sees Sappho straighten, sliding out of the room before Cornelia turns toward the doorway, Emet at her heels.  
"Lia," Cardixa says, red-faced and terrified as she appears in the hall, "Licinia has barred the bathing room door, she will not answer us, her maid does nothing but cry--"
"Get an axe," Cornelia says calmly, and like magic, Cardixa relaxes while two men behind her go running.  "Where is Claudia?"
"At the door, trying to convince her to open it," Cardixa says, falling into step beside her, Sappho on their heels.  "The maid says Licinia was calmed, asked for a hot bath so she could clean herself--"
Cornelia's step checks before she takes up a stride just short of a run. "Even she couldn't be that stupid."
"Find Publius," Sappho says, grabbing a frightened looking man and staring into his eyes. "He is on his way to the market; tell him we have need of him and to run."  As soon as he nods, Sappho follows in Cornelia's footsteps.
When she arrives, Cornelia is staring at the bathing room door, with Cardixa trying to coax Claudia, sobbing Licinia's name against the heavy wood, away from the door so the two men holding an axe and what looks like a sledgehammer can approach.
"I'll get her," Sappho says quietly, and gently eases by Cardixa before picking Claudia up as easily as a child, whispering to her gently as she sobs, while the two men start to chop the door apart.  
The moment the opening is big enough, Cornelia gestures sharply and approaches, careless of splinters, and once inside, all Dean can see is her stop short.
"Get it open," Sappho snaps at the men, stroking the sobbing Claudia calmer.  "Now."
At double time, they do it, and Sappho gestures sharply for one of the girls hovering nearby.  "Take Claudia to her cubicle and stay at her side.  Allow her neither food nor drink you have not tasted yourself and have someone search her room for sharp instruments she might use.  Do not turn your eyes from her for a moment, do you understand me?"  The girl stares at her, and Sappho's voice lowers dangerously.  "If any harm comes to her, I will gut you alive and leave you for the crows."
Terrified, the girl nods, and Sappho leaves Claudia to her, following Cardixa into the room, and stopping short by the immobile Cornelia staring at the sunken bath.
Licinia's head is tilted back, cheek resting on a bed of blond hair that spills over the raised rim of the tub and over the floor, closed eyes sunk into bruised shadows and lips still parted from her last breath, her face as colorless as the marble around her.  It takes a minute for Dean to work out what's wrong with the too-still, dark water and realizes that's because it's red.  On the edge of the sunken tub is a small, jeweled eating knife, blade shining in the light of the oil lanterns filling the room.
The water's still steaming.
Dean hears a soft sound at his side, and turning, he sees his companion has tears in her eyes.  Reaching out, he touches her arm. "You okay?"
"They told Mama it was a wasting illness," she whispers, tears sliding down her cheeks, and without thinking, Dean wraps an arm around her shoulders, giving her something to lean against if she needs to.  "She barely remembers anything of her, just what her grandmother told her, about how pretty and bright she was and how much she and my grandfather loved each other."  She looks up at Dean.  "She wasn't very strong.  Her father wasn't as kind as a paterfamilias should be to his daughter, and even her husband and his family could not help what was broken beyond repair."
"No one should have to be that strong." He thinks of how Gaius died and what was done to him after, what Licinia would think of his fate.  Left to wander the shores of the Styx and Acheron for all of time, another lost shade unable to cross and slowly growing mad for all of time a river's width from home.
"No one deserved such a fate," he hears her whisper, like a promise, maybe to herself.  "We will not have it.  We're almost ready, and this I swear: I won't fail."
Publius enters the room, eyes flickering to Cornelia, then the bath, and he takes a deep, shuddering breath before going to Cornelia's side.  
"I need to get her out." Cornelia starts determinedly toward the tub; after exchanging an alarmed glance, Cardixa and Publius reach her just as she kneels by Licinia, reaching to touch her face with a stark expression that Dean looks away from: that wasn't meant for anyone to see but maybe the dead.  "Don't fret," she says for no ears but those that can't hear.  "Play with him on the shores before you cross, if you wish; he will enjoy it very much.  I will take care of all else."  Then, to Dean's horror, she reaches both arms into the bloody water and starts to ease Licinia up and out.
"No," Publius says, wrapping an arm around Cornelia's shoulders and pulling her back, bloody water trailing over her dress, other arm going around her waist.  "It's not fit for you--"
"I am a patrician Cornelia," she grits out as Cardixa gives Sappho a desperate look that sends her running back out the door.  "If I do it, it is fit.  Let me go to my daughter."
The two men come inside immediately--Sappho right on their heels and hissing something he's glad isn't directed at him--as Publius slowly, inexorably eases Cornelia back.  Dean can tell he really wants to pick her up, but the set look on her face probably scares the guy as much as it does Dean.
"Get a sheet for her," Cornelia snaps at one of the maids, now aware she's been subtly dragged away and won't be getting back there, though from the way Publius is holding onto her, she's sure as hell trying.  "I will not have her exposed to any eyes that might see."
Sappho looks at Cardixa and then Publius before silently withdrawing and starts toward the other side of the house, crossing the peristyle garden unseeingly and entering a pretty sitting room--Licinia's, got to be--and looks around before she starts to search.
It doesn't take her long; Licinia might have been a good escape artist, but she knew shit about hiding things.  Sitting on the floor of Licinia's sleep cubicle, Sappho spreads out the rolls of paper, starting with the first and reading each unsigned letter, sometimes simply words, other times sketches in gruesome detail: of Gaius' body on the ground in the Grove of the Furies, of it being slowly mutilated and dismembered, of the pieces sinking into the Tiber; sometimes it's just his head, empty eye sockets staring and mouth pried open to show no coin for Charon within, skull sawed open and brain removed before it was filled with molten gold, for the promise of Opimius' rich reward for whoever brought him Gaius's head, amount decided by its weight.  
"Cunni," his companion spits, tears gone and eyes hot with growing anger.  "To use her weakness against her--"
"She wasn't weak," Dean interrupts flatly, looking at the number of letters spread out, some crisply new, others rolled and rerolled so many times there are rips in the paper: the surface of all are stained with tears.  This started before she even got to Rome; how the hell did they get to her in goddamn Misenum?  Months: they've been doing this to her for months.  "She was hurt, and they didn't stop hitting her, so she took away their goddamn punching bag!  Fuck that shit, no one should have to be strong enough to deal with that!"
He feels his companion looking up at him and realizes abruptly he's talking about her grandmother.  Who just died.  "Sorry.  Uh."
"Don't be," she answers, staring up at him with a weird look.  "You're right.  I stand corrected."
Slowly, painfully, Sappho reads every one, expression as impassive as Cornelia's before she gathers them again, rolling them up and concealing them somewhere in her dress and starting toward a different part of the house, finding Licinia's maid, who's crying in the empty servant's quarters.
For a second, Sappho doesn't say anything, looking at her for a long moment, then rearranges her expression to sympathy and goes to the girl. Dean can't hear what she says--honestly, he's surprised Sappho can make any of it out between the sobs and runny nose--but Sappho nods, hugging her gently, and rising without expression to return to the other part of the house.  She joins Cornelia again outside the bathing room--Dean wonders how the hell Publius managed to get her out--still in her wet gown, faded red-pink stains winding down her bare arms where the bloody water dried just in time to watch the men carry out Licinia's sheet-wrapped body.
The man stumbles when he steps on a piece of splintered wood, and the sheet slips, one bloodless arm falling free.  For a searing moment, everyone can see the long, deep slices on her inner arm from elbow to wrist; in that much, Licinia didn't fuck around.  Her head slides off his shoulder, blonde hair falling over his arm, but looking at still her face, Dean realizes something he missed earlier; she's smiling, like when Death finally came for her, it was very kind, a welcome friend.
Cornelia waves away the unstoppered jar that Emet is holding.  "I'm fine," she says precisely.  "If you would, could you prepare something for Claudia?  The shock may have upset her unduly."
"Of course, domina," he says, bowing, and Cornelia gives him a brief smile, but the dark eyes are dull, like the light's been put out.
"Thank you."
"A servant is with her," Sappho says softly as Emet withdraws.  "She should be moved to a new suite, domina."
Cornelia's lips part briefly, glancing at Sappho to see her touch the place in her skirt the papers are concealed. Publius follows her gaze and his jaw hardens.
"A new room would be best, yes," Cornelia answers. "Hers is too close to Licinia's.  Cardixa, please see to it.  And let no one enter Claudia's old suite or the new one other than you or Emet without my express permission."
Cardixa bows her head.  "At once, domina."
"Publius, Sappho, please accompany me to the tabilium," Cornelia continues, dark eyes fixing on the suddenly obsequious steward.  "I assume you can see to your duties?"
"Yes, domina." He bows deeply, and Cornelia's eyes narrow, there-and-gone before she turns, leading the way to the tabilium.  As Publius shuts the door behind them, Sappho sets the bundle on the desk and steps back.  Cornelia picks them up, reading each at a glance before dropping them on the desk, expression never changing.  
"The maid says a freedman, very kind, was in this house and would meet her in the kitchens once per nundinae though the days differed.  He was the same one who brought your correspondence from Rome, so she thought him a friend," Sappho reports.  "He told her they were from an admirer and would please Licinia so she would be less sad. She did not understand why they made Licinia upset, as she did not see them herself, because Licinia told her not to and she cannot read Latin, only Greek."
At a knock on the door, Cornelia looks up, expression freezing as a woman enters.
"Mater?" she says, and it takes Dean a second to realize that's Sempronia, Cornelia's only daughter.  When she was among those receiving word of Gaius's death, she'd seemed a younger, duller model of Cornelia; now the wide, dark eyes she shares with her mother are the only similarity that remains.
"Ecastor," his companion whispers, and yeah.  
Sempronia's dropped enough weight that she's not just thin, she's emaciated; stick-like arms poke from beneath the elegant black palla she clutches around her, and her gown hangs on her like it was made for someone else entirely.  Cheeks hollowed out, lips thin and almost as grey as the dark olive skin, eyes are sunken into black hollows, she has the indefinable feeling of someone still moving from sheer force of will and nothing else, and even from here, he can see her shivering from cold despite the warmth of the day.  
It's the first time he's ever seen Cornelia genuinely thrown, licking her lips uncertainly with a flash of guilt that vanishes beneath a bad impression of her usual calm. "Sempronia," she says softly, circling around the desk and going to the door.  "What do you here?  You should be resting."
Dean checks out Publius and Sappho; neither looks surprised, but there and gone is that guilt again, this time on Publius's face.
"Mater, the household is an uproar.  They're saying...."  She stills as Cornelia reaches her, and whatever she sees on Cornelia's face must be confirmation; she catches her breath before her eyes roll back, and Cornelia catches her as she collapses, supporting her to the floor.  
"Sappho," she says, and immediately Sappho and Publius are with them, Sappho removing a bottle from her dress and handing it to Cornelia as she holds Sempronia against her shoulder.  "Beloved," Cornelia whispers, waving the bottle under Sempronia's nose.  "Come now, my love."
Another woman hurries in, and Dean takes a moment; six foot two (at least) with shoulders like a goddamn linebacker, pale skinned with mousy brown hair and the look of someone who could bench press pretty much everyone in the room.  As lightly as someone half her size, she kneels on Sempronia's other side, looking a combination of worried and annoyed (an expression Cardixa wears around Cornelia a lot); on a guess, this is Sempronia's maid.
"Nissa, could you not have sent for me?" Cornelia asks quietly.  "She shouldn't be excited, the physician was very clear on that."
"Forgive me, domina," Nissa answers, shaking her head as she helps Cornelia support Sempronia.  "She heard the servants shouting and went to investigate before I could stop her."  There's an unspoken 'and tackle her to the ground' that Cornelia seems to understand.
"My pardon," Cornelia answers, lifting her head for a quick, reassuring smile at Nissa.  "I did birth and rear her, so know her nature."  Then, voice changing, "There you are, beloved.  Lie still now; you are far too pale."
"I am well," Sempronia says, sounding like she should be in bed for like a month and eating the entire goddamn time.  "It was but a moment; it's passed.  Mother, tell me; is it true?  Licinia is...."
Cornelia leans closer, and while he can't hear what they say, he sees it in Cornelia's back and the way Sempronia goes still.  
"Let Nissa assist you to you room," Cornelia says, straightening.  She and Cornelia exchange a look before Nissa gets to her feet and crouches to help her up, by which he means pretends she's not picking her up like a goddamn doll.  "I'll be with you shortly."
Cornelia watches the door for several seconds after they left.  "I am not altogether content with her current physician's recommended treatement," she says evenly, and Dean's pretty sure if he could read her mind, she'd be kicking the guy all over the house right now.  "I need to speak to Emet.  Publius, Sappho, please, wait for me here," Cornelia adds distractedly.  "I will return in a few minutes."
"Yes, domina," Sappho says, bowing her head, and Publius nods.  As soon as she's gone, Publius approaches the desk with Sappho at his heels, picking up each loosely rolled letter and reading it carefully.  "They were in Licinia's sleeping cubicle, beneath the mattress."
"I'll search Claudia's suite," he says neutrally.  "Sempronia's maid has been with her since childhood; she allows nothing that might upset Sempronia or cause any degradation to her health.  She, at least, was spared--this."  Filth, he doesn't say and doesn't need to: there's no other word for it.
"Has she always been so ill?" Sappho asks, and Dean remembers she's only seen her here in Rome.
"She was a sickly child, took every ailment that she came across and some that seemed to seek her out," Publius says, eyes fixed on the papers. "Her will was always very strong, however, even as a babe, and she grew in strength and spirit; Cornelia saw to that. She does very well in the country, but she does take every illness that may pass while we are in Rome, and far prefers seclusion and quiet."
Sappho stills, though her expression doesn't change.  "She is widow of...Publius Cornelius Scipio...Aemilianus...." Her eyebrows draw together sharply as she struggles for the rest, and Publius looks at her with the ghost of amusement. 
"Africanus Numantinus," he says blandly, and looking relieved, Sappho nods.  "Yes, consular and censor in his time.  Why do you ask?"
"It's my duty to know all I can of the family I serve," she answers just as blandly, and Publius nods silent approval.  "I understand that during her marriage, she was often ill as well, and required seclusion during her recovery.  Gossip cannot be trusted, of course, so I paid it no mind."
"In that much of what you heard, there is some truth," Publius agrees, picking up another of the scrolls to scan.  "There are always rumors, Sappho; the wise do not ignore them, but learn to discern the truth within the fiction.  I appreciate the difficulties of your position and commend your sense of duty.  Obviously, it would be improper to request clarification from Cornelia on such a subject, but if something confuses or troubles you, feel free to ask me so I may provide enlightenment."
"I thank you for your kindness, domine," she answers, busying herself with unnecessarily straightening a chair.  "I would like to take advantage of your offer now, if it is convenient."
"Of course," Publius agrees with elaborate nonchalance, and Dean wonders if he should take notes or something.  So this is how people work up to a subject; he's wondered about that.  "I'm at your service."
"During those very pleasant dinner parties that entertain us all, when I was not attending to my mistress, of course, I would often overhear discussion among the other servants."
Publius doesn't look up from the scroll, but since its upside down, Dean seriously doubts he's reading it. "Did you hear something that troubled you?  Please elucidate: you need not fear reproach.  It's expected that you pay attention to what you hear; how else will you learn?"
"Thank you, domine.  Among the topics discussed freely among them," Sappho says, committed to moving that chair like an eighth of an inch, "Sempronia's absence was noted and commented on, of course.  Among the older servants--whose age I'm sure must excuse them much--it was remembered that their marriage was--somewhat difficult." Publius nods casual agreement, and encouraged, Sappho continues.  "It was also said that Sempronia was subject to spells of dizziness and was often--clumsy, due to them coming upon her unaware."
Publius's fingers tighten on the scroll.  "Now that you mention it, I vaguely remember hearing such rumors myself."
"You reassure me," Sappho says, staring at the chair like it personally offended her.  "Her...husband, I understand, often referred to those when explaining her absence."
"Yes, that would explain how I heard it," Publius agrees, but something in his voice makes Sappho shoot him a wary look. "I appreciate the reminder, Sappho; at my age, the memory can be uncertain.  Did you hear anything else of note?"
Sappho hesitates again, as if choosing her words with care.  "It was said that--he often failed to accord her the respect due to her as his wife, and would speak publicly of her in ways some found unbecoming in a Roman nobleman." When Publius doesn't react, Sappho continues.  "I received the impression that he was not as kind as--as a husband should be to their wife."
Publius stills, hand clenching on the paper.  "No, Sappho, he was not."
Dean unlocks his jaw with an effort.  "Uh, are they saying--"
"Yes," she answers, and the controlled anger in her voice matches the controlled impassivity of Publius's expression.  "That is what they're saying."
Sappho closes her eyes for a long moment.  "Thank you, domine."
The door to the tabilium opens again, and Sappho smooths her expression and at Cornelia's gesture, joins them at the desk.
"Publius," she says quietly, and in her eyes Rome burns for a thousand years.  "I have work for you."
"I was hoping," he says conversationally, "that is what you would say."
She reaches behind the desk and places a book bucket on the chair.  Reaching inside, she picks one and sets it on the edge of the desk.  "The exception to the lex Vocania, allowing my granddaughter Sempronia to inherit the Gracchi fortune and property in full and in preference to any past, present, or future claimants, male or female.  It lasts two generations and will allow the inheritance of her daughter as well should she have no sons."
Publius nods.  "And that fortune--"
"This one, returning the Gracchi fortune in whole, along with all property, to my granddaughter to be held in her own right," Cornelia says, adding a second scroll.  "This one lifts the proscription of Gaius Sempronius and Tiberius Sempronius and confirms that they are not nefas and I can buy their passage on Charon's barge.  The Pontifex Maximus will be personally directed by the Senate to accept payment in full."  She adds the third, meeting Publius's eyes. "Licinia will meet my son on the shores of Styx and Acheron and they will cross together."
"The rest?"
"This one rescinds the proscription of my son's followers and allows them to pursue careers as their fathers did before them," she answers crisply, adding three more.  "This one restores their fortunes and property to them.  The Senate will never permit the latter but they'll accept the former once they see it.  This restores Claudia and Licinia's dowries in full, Licinia's inheritable by her daughter Sempronia."  She stares the others and picks one up. "This one directs the Senate to order I be given first choice when the property of all those who followed my son and the three thousand executed without trial goes to State auction, and the opening price will be reduced by three-fifths." She meets Publius's eyes.  "One fifth for each of my children that they killed."  
Publius smiles.  "Well done."
There are others--something about committal days, something about feria?--but the last one she holds in her hand for a long moment, staring at the seal before setting it on the desk.
"And this one rescinds the proscription of the family of Gaius Flavius Flaccus and permits them to return to Rome."
"Gaius Flavius was Gaius Sempronius's closest friend and partner," Publius says.  "Even dead, they will not--"
"They will," she answers.  "His only living son is only a few years older than my little Sempronia, his wife was abandoned by her family; they are destitute." The revulsion in her voice is unmistakable.  "I will not have it. He will climb the cursus honorium and be tribune of the plebs, praetor, and consul in his time, as his father was before him and my sons should have been.  This will be done."
He nods.  "What else?"
"This is the price of each tribune of the plebs who is not already bought or can be repurchased to the sestertius," she says, handing him several smaller scrolls, unsealed.  "This is a list of senators in need of funds for highly expensive and some might call illegal habits.  We pay or they will: I leave it to your discretion on which.  Beneath are two of the most expensive courtesans in Rome; speak first to Flavia Ursa.  She was very attached to Gaius Fulvius and would happily assist us, and an Alexandrian crown will encourage her to do her good work quickly among her current lovers.  I need every backbencher I can acquire."
Publius eyes the scrolls thoughtfully. "It will take time for them to draft that much legislation-"
"These are summaries," she interrupts.  "I drafted the them myself; they're stored in the empty cubicles by my sleep cubicle.  All they have to do is present them, and I wrote their speeches already as well as their arguments and counters.  I need a majority in the Senate first, they will make the decree--not worth the paper it's written on, but I want it--and then it will be presented to the Plebian Assembly to be ratified and legally iron-clad; that means I need all thirteen votes without a veto."
Publius glances down the lists, making a face.  "I see several problems."
"I anticipated that."  Reaching into the desk, she takes out the metal-cased scroll, weighing it in her hand, then opening it and removing the paper within.  
"What is that?" Dean asks his companion.
She shakes her head.  "I'm not sure."
"You need no instruction from me on how best to use this," she continues, taking out her purse and dumping the contents on the desk. From among the coins and slips of paper, she picks out the pieces of wood that Cardixa gave her until a tiny pile of tinder fills her palm.  "Enough to fill your hand at each.  For remembrance."
Publius nods.  
"It was Opimius' work," Cornelia says abruptly, lips flattening.  "He wanted me out of Rome, and used Licinia to try and accomplish it."
"I doubt," Publius replies, "that he meant her to suicide."
"I doubt he cared as long as it resulted in me leaving Rome." Cornelia's eyelids lower, but not before Dean sees something cold in their depths, the kind of hatred that can last a lifetime.  "He'll wait, however.  First, I shall have from Rome what I am owed."
"Cornelia Africana Roma Triumpha," Publius says softly, bowing his head.  "Your will be done."
"Sappho," she says, and Sappho jumps little before rearranging her expression to match Cornelia's, "tomorrow, you will go with Cardixa and one of my freedman clients to the markets and select Claudia a new maid and my granddaughter a nursemaid.  I don't care if they speak Greek or Latin or cannot speak at all. My only requirements are of character; they should be intelligent, loyal, discreet, of strong will, and good nature, the rest I can teach them myself.  We shall look forever to find one to match Nissa, but if you can find one of at least your height or greater, that would be a great comfort.  Select ten of each between you, interview them, narrow it to three for each position, and I will interview them here with you and Cardixa in attendance."
"And Licinia's and Claudia's maids?" Publius asks neutrally.
"I will send them to Misenum to await my return," she answers.  "They cannot be trusted, but they're of sweet nature and are loyal, simply stupid.  Among my tenants are many who would be glad to have a freedwoman wife from my household, and I can dower them sufficiently to assure their future comfort.  I will need a new steward as well."  She meets Publius's eyes and that dangerous hate Dean saw in the Forum comes to life. "Please tell me when you discover he's escaped and you cannot find him."
"I shan't search for more than two, perhaps three days," he says.  "I'll select your new one myself, of course."
"Thank you.  I will be in my sitting room," she says, and the very slight change in her voice makes both Publius and Sappho stiffen.  "I will not be disturbed.  By anyone."
Publius bows and Sappho as well as she walks to the door.  Dean can't look away, watching her walk the long length of her home, nodding to a servant, pausing to answer a question, expression calm as she reaches her sitting room and locks the door.  For a long moment, she stares at nothing, and then she crumples slowly, painfully, with a single strangled gasp worse than any scream or sob. 
"Stop," he says flatly, and it doesn't, it doesn't, fuck this shit, two steps and he punches a flat wall and a stationary picture of a woman's endless grief.
Taking a deep breath, he watches for anything else to show up, but it looks like the (really fucking invasive) show's over. Turning, he frowns to look at the blank look on his companion's face.  "Hey, you okay?"
She's no Sempronia or anything, but he thinks her face is thinner than it was last time, full lips tight, and the lines on her face are the kind you have when things are bad and just getting worse.  No jewelry either, he realizes in surprise; the brown hair is tucked into a simple roll at the back of her head, and even her gown is plain, a stark, unrelieved white that emphasizes the ashen quality of the olive skin she shares with Cornelia and Sempronia.
"It's not working, is it?" he asks; he's not clear on 'what' is supposed to work, sure, but he gets the feeling it's pretty goddamn important.
She looks up, and he's struck suddenly by how much she resembles Cornelia there if in no other way, and thinking of Cornelia's life, he wonders suddenly what hers was like when she was alive.  He should look that up, you know, when he gets a name.  
"No," she whispers, and even though he was ready for it, it hits him like a blow.  Looking around, Dean realizes there's no furniture and quickly adds a couch before reaching for her arm, leading her over.  Sitting down, she drops her head into her hands.  "That's the problem with nothing written; you have to write it all yourself.  There's no way to know if you're doing it right or even if you do, if it'll work."
Sitting beside her, he tentatively rests an arm over her shoulders, feeling the tension emanating from every muscle.  
"Better than the other way," he answers honestly.  "Trust me, the script is always worse."
She turns her head to look at him through red-rimmed eyes.  "What if I can't do this?"
"Dude, at least wait until the battle starts before you declare defeat."  She blinks at him.  "Cas," he admits and her mouth softens; yeah, he figured she knew him.  "If you can't, you can't, happens to everyone; that's when you call for help."
She straightens, looking incredulous and amused.  "This isn't even 'do as I say not as I do'," she remarks.  "This is 'I had no idea you even knew the concept existed'."
"You're funny," he assures her, and she laughs softly. "If it's going wrong, take a deep breath, step back, and figure out how to fix it.  Simple."
"You make it sound easy," she answers wryly.
"Never said it was easy," he says.  "Simple's never easy, for the record."
She nods, rubbing her eyes.  "I'm so tired, Dean."
Yeah, that he gets.  "That's half your problem right there," he says, glad Cas will never hear this conversation; he'd be smug for-fucking-ever.  "And I got your solution."
"What?"
Calling in a blanket, Dean drapes it around her and uses his catlike reflexes, her surprise (and her being really tired, yeah) to tip her sideways against his shoulder.  "Rest," he says triumphantly as she tips her head back to glare at him balefully. "Come on, not like we don't have time in here."
"I can't," she starts, trying to get up (but not all that hard, he notes).  "I have to--"
"Do shit, I know," he says.  "This?  Is one of the things you gotta do. It'll be fine."
She hesitates, tipping her head back to frown at him.
"Promise. Now get some rest," he says, and finally, she leans her head against his shoulder with a sigh. "I'll keep watch."
After getting a carafe from Brenda and two extra cups, Dean returns to the Situation Room and is surprised to see Kamal leaning over Vicky's shoulder with a baffled look.  
"No, it's easy," she insists, pointing to something on the screen. "Look, let me show you again.  This column is for--"
"Hey," Dean says, and doesn't even smile when Kamal jumps, because leaders don't do that.  Much.
"Dean," Kamal says in relief.  "We'll pick this up later," he tells Vicky as he starts toward the door.  "Hey, can I talk to you for a sec?"
"Sure."  Leaving the carafe and coffee on the nearest table, he follows Kamal out the door and into the empty room, watching as Kamal closes the door.  "Everything okay?"
Kamal smiles smugly. "We found him."
@@@@@@
--Day 156, continued--

"He didn't fight?" Dean asks Joe, just inside the Third Street building that had been designated holding for the drunk and disorderly on New Year's Eve and is now--well, more.
("This is temporary.  Most problems are usually handled in my office at Admin," Naresh told them on New Year's Eve.  "I'm assuming that won't be practical tonight.")
During the course of the party, it held: five drunk and disorderly, three altercations that couldn't be handled with a stern talk, and two of the Andale stoners on a bad acid trip, which Cas blamed on substandard manufacturing somethings. 
(Dean hasn't and won't ask if Cas will be spreading enlightenment on appropriate DIY drug making to the eager masses, because that's definitely better than Cas becoming drug dealer of Kansas.  Though if he's honest, he's not sure why; Dean's already an illegal weapons dealer and they're first and second on the FBI Most Wanted.  He's never aspired to being part of a power couple of crime, but if that's gonna happen, might as well do it right and hit all the bases.)
Observing the frantic activity, Dean considers the current population of Ichabod's Sort of Jail: twenty-one drunk and disorderly (ie people); forty-six fights serious enough that it couldn't be handled by volunteer staff; one domestic abuse (Dean's okay with exile right now for that shit); and a growing, rotating staff of progressively more bewildered volunteers (and they're all aware this is impossibly best case scenario with the sheer number of people stuffed into Ichabod right now).  It's not that Ichabod didn't have problems like anyone else; it just self-selected to get rid of the reason you tend to need jail cells.  (Dean doesn't discount 'pure fucking exhaustion from trying to survive' also being a factor here; any decent crime wave requires you be awake and able to walk, which field work, he's heard, does not encourage.  He's really looking forward to spring, oh yeah.)
"Not really," Joe answers, shrugging as they start toward the room that Naresh is resentfully using as his headquarters (his office in Admin is much nicer).  "Idiots two weren't with him, which might explain it; Micah, not a risk-taker.  Naresh said he did invoke the Bill of Rights, though "
Dean looks up at him. "Seriously?"
"Micah was a lawyer before," Joe says, and Dean nods at the check for confirmation: sure, why not?  "Anyway, this is sketchy territory, but me and Naresh thrashed it out.  We can't take him out of the building, but he won't insist one of his people be in the room when you're questioning him.  Two restrictions: only one of us in the room with him, and we're on the honor system; don't do anything he's not allowed to do.  There'll be a check in an hour, but since we don't plan to beat him up--yet--I figured we'll go with it."
A lot better than he hoped.  "You're good."
"I've had practice," Joe answers smugly just before they enter Naresh's doorless office, a peeling-paint nightmare with Naresh sitting behind a folding table visibly resenting the substandard accommodations (and the insane workload, if the pile of manila folders and papers are any indication).
"Naresh," Dean says, extending a hand as Naresh gets to his feet.  "How's it going?"
Naresh's left eye twitches unsettlingly.  "Wonderful," he says, and Dean can hear the faint British accent appear like a storm warning screaming everyone is gonna die.  Okay, so.  "How are you?"
"Good, good." Sitting down immediately when Naresh motions him toward the chairs, he cocks his head.  "That bad?"
"It could be worse," Naresh admits reluctantly, sitting back.  "My people have been helping the volunteers keep our visitors occupied and have set in place a thirty minute rule to lower the chances of a catalyst event.  I must remember to thank Alicia for that suggestion."
Dean exchanges a bewildered look with Joe before asking, "Thirty minute rule?"
"Something Cas said about crowd stagnation," Naresh says, thinking.  "Alicia suggested if the geas was working psychologically, we could out-psych it by simply assuring no one felt confined and were kept occupied.  We divided the day into four six hour shifts and move groups working inside between rooms and jobs--or areas if they're unwell or can't work at this time--and encourage as many people as possible to take jobs outside fixing windows or repairing roofs, whatever seems needed.  Combined with Wall duty--a very popular job--and infirmary and mess duties, as well as organizing childcare and assistance for the elderly and disabled, everyone is kept occupied with a variety of needed jobs, alleviating the dangers of boredom as well.  To be truthful, under these conditions, I wouldn't need a geas to quickly go insane if I had nothing to do but sit and wonder what is happening and why."
Huh. "It's working?"
"There haven't been any more catalyst events," he points out, and yeah, there's that.  "In more mundane ways, it's also helped them to feel more in control of their circumstances and lives.  We've been able to finish repairs on several buildings on Seventh Street and Tony has brought three more up on the grid.  Alison was taken on a tour by the families moving into the latest one this morning."
Of course she was there; he reminds himself to check in with Sean's team and maybe vaguely imply they're doing a good job working their way off his shit list. 
"So Micah," he starts and watches as Naresh's eye-twitch return with interest; looks like Micah's making the opposite of friends here. "Joe briefed me; anything you want to add?"
"Nothing in particular," he answers, sitting back with a sigh when the chair squeals protest to his existence.  "I have two people in the room with him, both of whom are eager to leave.  He's quoting Maryland legal statutes at them; pointing out we're not in Maryland doesn't seem to be deterring him."
Micah sounds like a hell of a charmer; no lie, Dean gets Carol's infatuation.  "I appreciate you letting us talk to him," he says.  "For the record, we don't know if he had anything to do with the attack yesterday, but we have reason to believe...." Okay, just say it.  "Alicia thinks he had something to do with it. Or at least knew about it."
Naresh nods.  "If he did, we'll need to discuss what to do with him, but as exile is our most extreme penalty...." He leans forward, giving Dean a searching look.  "I assume if he did, you'll wish to claim him?"
Yeah, that.  "We want him either way."
"Why?"
Dean considers leaving it vague, but--no.  "I have confirmation he was involved in a failed assassination attempt on two members of Chitaqua two years ago.  After this is over, unless Ichabod has some objections to us taking an attempted murderer, we want him back."
Beside him, Joe's chair creaks dangerously.
"You have proof?" Naresh asks.
"I have a witness," he answers steadily, not looking at Joe.  "If needed, they'll confirm privately to Alison and you, but--for the record, it'll be exile from Kansas for us.  We're not in the business of people hunting."
Naresh sits back, regarding him thoughtfully. "I assume you wish to keep this private."
"For now," he agrees. "At least until we know more." And hey, maybe tell the two victims about it first.
"I'll speak to Alison, but it will probably need to go before the town council," Naresh says finally, glancing at Joe, who is doing great with the poker face.  "Dean, if it's not an imposition--how is Alicia?  I understand she lost a team member, and Suma and I would like to offer our condolences."
"She's--uh, with her team," Dean answers blankly; he's pretty sure Matt and Jody would have noticed if she went missing.  "Uh--I'll tell her, but uh, feel free to stop by.  You should be on the list at the front desk."
"Thank you," Naresh says, sitting back, and Dean takes that as permission to escape.  "Second floor, right hall, last door on the left.  Check in with me when you're done?"
"Absolutely," Dean agrees, knowing Joe's at his back and he's probably going to need to talk about this.  
And he's right; they get halfway up the stairs and away from other ears when Joe hisses, "Micah was involved?"
"Yeah," Dean says.  "Surprised?"
"Not even a little," Joe snorts.  "Cas told you?"
Dean would love to stick with that, but on a guess, that will inevitably end--somehow--with Joe asking Cas about it, Cas denying it, and fuck his life.  "No, don't ask, I'm not gonna tell, and that's for later, anyway.  I haven't talked to Cas about it yet."
Joe makes a weird noise as they reach the top of the stairs.  "You haven't?"
"Dude, it's been a little busy," he argues as they start down the hall; it's true (really).  "So, you gonna listen at the door or what?"
"I am," Joe says, like Dean asked if air exists (ie: yes).  "Unless you don't want me to, then I'll pretend I didn't.  Scout's honor."
When they reach the door, Dean knocks and isn't entirely surprised at the quick response; a man's face peers out warily before he smiles in relief.
"Dean," he says, which Dean tries not to take as 'everyone knows his face whether he's ever seen them or not' but well, evidence.  "Clyde," he adds, coming out and motioning for an even more relieved woman to join him.  "This is Lalitha," he says, extending a dark, work-hardened hand to shut the door firmly behind her.  "He's on habeas corpus again."
Joe sighs noisily.  "Sounds fun."
"All yours," Lalitha says, mouth quirking as she threads an arm through Clyde's.  "We'll see you in an hour.  Have fun."
"Thanks," he says to their rapidly retreating backs before looking at Joe.  "Any chance you brought anything to take notes?"
Joe pulls out a pad with a constipated look.  "Cas," he explains.  "He'll want a report, especially if he's not here, and by the way, did you talk to him about this?"
"He's busy at the infirmary, wasn't time," Dean explains, reaching almost eagerly for the doorknob. "Strike while the iron's hot and everything."
"You get," Joe says behind him, "we're going to be finding and moving a couch into your room for you to sleep on now, right?"
If he's lucky, yeah.  "I'll be fine."
"I'll make a list of what we have to trade for the shittiest couch in town," Joe says thoughtfully.  "Something with bugs."
Following Sudha inside, Castiel turns on the light and blinks slowly.
It's--very much a room.
"Oh," Sudha says in surprised pleasure, and Castiel nods as he takes in the newly-painted yellow walls and repaired tile floor spread with a cheerful rug, the glass in the window obviously just replaced, and the light fixtures gleaming gently in the mellow light.  "How did he have the time?"
"I'm not sure," he prevaricates, taking her bag to a repaired dresser and unpacking it absently as he eyes the walls, looking for--he has no idea what.  It's a pleasant room of utterly mundane proportions; bed, dresser, side table, a birthing chair in the corner should Sudha choose that support during labor, a regular--if worn--armchair nearby for visitors.  
Castiel finishes unpacking for her just as one of the infirmary volunteers arrives with Rabin at her heels, and he excuses himself and goes to look at the other rooms and finding them only different in furniture and lack of current occupants.  
Returning downstairs, he considers the possibility Nate was simply acting from a generous impulse to make her comfortable (and possibly, some form of solidarity in being targets of the Misborn).  It wouldn't be out of character; Tony spoke glowingly of Nate excellent work ethic, and he does seem to enjoy building things.  He was very enthusiastic about the new mess, after all.
Using the back stairs, he emerges into the administration section of the infirmary to see Vera and Dolores talking nearby. Waiting politely for them to finish, he sees Dolores looking uncertain, but at Vera's shrug, she nods in resignation and starts back to the ER.  
Turning, Vera sees him and the tired look becomes a smile.  "Hey.  How--"
"I'm assisting you during the birth due to my former vessels having had progeny, and angels like pregnant women," he recites.  Vera's eyebrows rise more with every word.  "They're all true.  Technically."
Vera cocks her head and considers him thoughtfully.  "Not bad."
He nods as she joins him.  "I thought you said you would go off duty when--"
"Unexpected development," she interrupts, nose wrinkling.  "Carol requested permission to visit Kat at Headquarters."
Perhaps those rooms actually sent him to an alternate universe where that makes sense.  "What?"
"Sarah confirmed Kat would like to see her," Vera adds, and Castiel fights the urge to return upstairs and repeat his tour of the rooms in reverse to see if that would help.  "Yeah, I know."
He looks at her helplessly.  "Are you sure you didn't hallucinate it in a new, unexpected, and frankly bizarre manifestation of the geas, which is still more believable than--that."
Vera sighs, leaning back against the wall.  "Thought of that, but if I was, Sarah was with me.  I made her repeat it twice just to make sure. I guess it makes sense; I mean, they both loved Andy...."
"Cain and Abel both loved God," Castiel says incredulously.  "In case you weren't aware of this, that story did not end well."
Vera rolls her eyes.  "Carol's pretty torn up about Andy.  From what she's said, I get the feeling she wanted Andy to come with her and--you know, unresolved whatever."  Tipping her head back, she gives him a wry look.  "She may have feelings for Micah, but between confirmation about her leg and the attack yesterday...if she's not rethinking everything, I'd be really surprised.  I mean, compare/contrast Andy and Micah: no contest, you know?"
"Is Carol stable enough?"
"No, and yes," she answers.  "I mean--she should be here, letting us prep her to get that leg, but...she's not going to do it."  She swallows, mouth starting to tremble. "I--I just finished checking her, and Dolores confirmed; gangrene's set in.  Surgery failed."
Looking down the hall, he sees the break room and gently reaches for her arm, leading her to it and is pleased to see it's empty.  Closing the door, he reaches for her shoulder in invitation and is relieved when she steps into his arms without hesitation, burying her face against his shoulder.
"I'm sorry," he says; it never fails to amaze him how inadequate language can be no matter how many words there are.
"Maybe if we'd done it earlier...." Vera sucks in a breath.  "Maybe if I knew what the hell I was doing, if we hadn't waited....fuck."
He nods, stroking her trembling back.
"Not a surgeon," she whispers against the soft flannel covering his shoulder. "Not even a doctor.  Fuck, I'm barely a goddamn nurse, what was I thinking, that I could--"
"Do the best you could?" he asks. He doesn’t know enough about modern medicine other than theory to know what is possible and what isn't even in the best of all worlds.  Which this is not.
"Best, yeah," she snorts, voice thick.  "Maybe if I'd paid attention instead of partying, I--"
"Would have chosen to become a surgeon in anticipation of having to operate on a woman injured by a Hellhound in the infected zone," he interrupts as Vera gulps wetly.  "Yes, that makes sense."
"Cas--"
"It doesn't help," he says, tightening his hold.  "I know."
After a few moments, she starts to relax and steps back, wiping her eyes impatiently.  "Thanks," she says, though for what he's not certain.
"How long does she have?"
"Depends on how fast it spreads," she answers.  "But not long.  Which could be another reason: I got the feeling she wasn't really close to anyone in that town.  Only real hunter there, and she's never been a people person, so...maybe being with us now helps.  Not like Micah's around."
He nods uncertainly; Kat's volatility is worrying, but perhaps Vera's correct and having someone who cared for Andy as she did will be of some comfort.  "The room beside that of Sarah's team is currently empty." The former residents had the very good sense to move.  "Could we outfit it for Carol's use while visiting with Kat?"
"I guess," she replies. "Why?"
"In case she wishes to remain for a few hours or--" He thinks of Dean's misery in their cabin after the fever: illness and boredom were issues, yes, but so was loneliness, even if Dean didn't want to admit it.  "She could spend the day at Headquarters and visit with those she doesn't hate.  Which are few, yes, but they exist, or so I assume. If the room could be made comfortable for her, with anything she might need....is there any reason she has to stay here?"
"Actually, no," Vera answers after a moment of thought.  "I can do her checks just as easily--maybe more--at Headquarters; otherwise, all we're doing is observation and Chitaqua can do that.  Let me talk to Dolores; if she goes for it, I'll see what Carol says."  She smiles up at him. "Good idea."
"Perhaps having people around her will encourage her to change her mind," he offers, seeing by Vera's expression that she's considering the same thing.  "Sarah's team is still off-duty for the day; they can be assigned to check on Carol when you're unavailable."
"Alicia could--"
"No," he says flatly, and Vera's eyes widen.  "She was--somewhat ambivalent regarding Alicia."  
It belatedly occurs to him that will be two people actively hostile to Alicia less than four doors from her room and struggles not to regret his suggestion.
"Because of Micah?" Vera asks. "Almost forgot, she's Miss I Judge You All For Everything, right. I don't remember those parties very well, but that could be the hangover from the drinking game."
"Drink once every time she disapproves of something you do," Cas agrees.  "She was inspiring; I had a list."
"We all did," Vera agrees with a sigh.  "Right, let me talk to Dolores, Carol, get her moved--"
"And go to bed," he reminds her.  "That's an order, in case that was unclear."
Vera straightens to a vague facsimile of attention. "Yes, sir."
"I'll ask Amanda to enforce it," he says innocently, and has the pleasure of seeing Vera bite her lip, dropping her gaze. "I'm sure she won't have too many objections."
"You're a dick," she says, starting to the door, but he catches the faint smile and is satisfied. "Give me an hour to get things started."
Dean's single view of Micah (outside the walls, at a distance, under stress, right before the Croat festivities began) gave him the impression of dark hair and weedy; however, if Dean was asked to extrapolate what Micah looked like with that plus 'lawyer', this is pretty much what he would have described.  Bland good looks that are done no favors by hard blue eyes that match the set of his mouth, projecting surprised resentment he's not getting his way. 
"Hey, Micah," he says, getting the chair from the corner--as far away from the cot as possible, he notes--and pulling it to the center of the room to sit down.  Joe checked him after Naresh's people did (Dean's learned his soldiers really can hide weapons anywhere), but if Micah kept up his training (which looking at him doesn't seem likely) he doesn't need a weapon.  Dean does a quick check of the room; one window (tiny), one cot, one other chair (better than those in Naresh's office), and settles down.  The last thing on Micah's mind seems to be 'attack Dean'.
"So," Dean says, smiling brightly.  "What's going on with you?"
Micah's eyes flickering to the door before resting on Dean again.  "Why was I--"
"Suspected involvement with a Croat attack orchestrated by your former team leader, suspected involvement in the murder of members of Chitaqua two years ago under the direction of the team leaders, and suspected involvement in the attempted assassination of Castiel and Vera," Dean recites, watching in satisfaction as Micah goes a very uncomfortable shade of grey.  "I got more, but we'll start with what happened outside the walls before the Croat attack; specifically, your warning to Alicia."
Micah's eyes narrow.  "She told you--"
"Everything."  Micah stiffens.  "But we're not talking about Alicia right now. Start with the warning; is Erica collecting on your contract early?"
Micah slumps onto the cot, looking away. "Yes," he answers flatly. "I thought--"
"Your time was up," Dean finishes for him.  "Because I was dead. Funny story: a demon showed up at Chitaqua two months ago, and he thought I was dead, too.  Interesting coincidence: tell me this was announced on the radio between detergent and car rental specials on the eastern seaboard?"
"I don't know--"
"Or--Jeffrey told you I was dead and Cas was--wait, opening Purgatory and conquering the world?" He cocks his head. "Did you really fall for that?"
"Cas set him up." Micah's mouth tightens. "Why?  What's going on?"
"How do you know Jeffrey?"
"Dean--"
"How many shots did you take at Cas and Vera in the cabin?"  Micah shuts his mouth.  "That's how many I'll take before the one that kills you.  Give me a number or answers before I stop believing anything you have to say and settle for guessing."
"You're not going to kill me," Micah says, sounding far too confident.  "If you had that kind of authority here, I'd be at your headquarters."
"I didn't say I'd do it now," Dean answers.  "I'll wait until you leave Ichabod, and I can guarantee they're not gonna want to keep you considering your Chitaqua record."
Micah shrugs. "I'll take my chances."
"Fair enough."  Dean gets to his feet, turning to the door.  "Town council is meeting--probably in the next hour--about the burnings of those killed outside the walls last night.  I'll see if we can get that exile started early.  Cas took care of the Croats so can't see why we can't do the penalty now.  I'll insist."
Going out, Dean shuts the door, rolling his eyes at Joe's shrug. "How long?"
"Depends on what he wants out of this," Joe answers.  "He tried negotiating with Naresh, didn't work."  The dark eyes meet his. "Alicia told you about Micah."
It's not a question.  "Yeah.  Why?"
Joe shrugs again, playing with his pen.
Before Dean can work out what's going on there, there's a triple tap on the door, and through the wood, he hears, "Dean.  I want to talk."
He raises his eyebrows at Joe, who frowns: yeah, that was ridiculous.
"He's fucking with you," Joe says quietly. "Don't lost your temper, you'll be fine."
"When have I--"
"Night of the Watch that lives on in everyone's memories, even people who weren't there," Joe says bluntly.  "Don't lose your temper.  He's a talker, doesn't like too much silence, so wait him out."
"What do you think he wants?"
"I got a couple of theories, but nothing solid," Joe answers.  "He'll tell us soon enough, why waste time speculating?"  He checks his watch. "Okay, go.  Just enough time passed to be insulting."
You can insult people with time: the more you know.  When he goes back in, he checks the room as ostentatiously as possible before finally sitting down again.
"This isn't a negotiation," he says. "That's Joe's territory.  I'm going to ask questions, you don't answer, I take this to the town council and let the chips fall as they may.  Now, let's skip to the part where you tell me about Jeffrey."
Micah nods comfortably. "Got it."
"You summoned Jeffrey." He waits for Micah to nod.  "He's the one you made contract with."
"Maybe."  Dean starts to get up.  "Look, I didn't ask for names when I made the contract, okay?  Erica wasn't big on chatting, and if I didn't follow the script, she'd kill me.  Literally, right there, she would have shot me in the head."
Honestly, Dean's starting to wonder how she resisted shooting him on principle.  "So you just summoned and took the first demon that showed up?"
Micah gives him a patronizing look. "Cas didn't teach us the finer points of summoning, so I used what Erica taught me; I went to a Crossroad and buried the box with my name and added Chitaqua to the paper. I figured that would get me someone relevant."
Dean wants to argue that, but he's not wrong.  "Why?"
"Information." Micah sits back, cool eyes evaluative, and Dean wonders suddenly if he was a defense attorney or prosecutor. "I had a--friend--at Chitaqua who kept me updated. I hadn't heard from them in a while, and I wasn't going back to find out what happened."
He can't be sure what Micah wants to imply with 'friend' but he can guess.  "How's your leg, by the way? I couldn't tell with you running away from danger and everything, but still got a limp?"
Micah's expression doesn't change.  "How is Alicia, anyway?  It's been a while since I saw her."
"Twenty four hours, right before you ran away from danger: must feel like forever."  Carol used her anger, Micah's using--lawyer powers or something, but point is, they're way too willing to talk and he doesn't like it.  "Who was your contact?"
"Privileged information," Micah answers.  "This one is a dealbreaker; they helped me out and I'm not fucking them over.  Besides, that's not what you want to know about, unless I'm wrong."
He really, really doesn't like being manipulated, especially when he's right.  "The contract."
"I thought as much."  Micah almost sighs.  "Threatened Carol, I suppose.  I suppose subtlety is still somewhat beyond you."
Dean grins at him; he's been insulted by the best, and that was before he met Cas and had to create a whole new standard.  Interesting he didn't assume Alicia told him, though.
"Jeffrey warned me about your death," Micah says finally, and Dean gives Joe a point for calling it: a talker, awesome.  "He also told me what Castiel told him--and I must say, Castiel never struck me as the brightest bulb--"
"You want to try and piss me off, get better at it," Dean advises him, slumping back in his chair.  "Come on, you're a smart guy.  He was your trainer; you want me to believe you got through training and lived in Chitaqua and didn't catch on to what he was?"
Micah raises an eyebrow but doesn't argue the point. 
"Yesterday, outside the walls," Dean continues.  "You warned Alicia; I'll start with 'how you knew'."
"Jeffrey," Micah answers coolly.  "He said Erica had risen and first on her list was going to be anyone still under contract. At least, when the barrier protecting Kansas finally let Hellhounds cross it."
"She was already on Crossroads?" Dean does the math; Cas's estimate leaves a lot of time that neither of them can account for.  Erica and the team leaders all died in Kansas City, not by Hellhound, and the barrier came up soon after that.  Though there's no way to know the exact moment, it's possible it was up before Hellhounds could get her soul.  Without reapers, he's honestly not sure how a soul gets anywhere these days.  Contract should have pulled her that direction, but come to think, he has no idea how that works without the people around who usually help with that kind of shit.
"Jeffrey didn't mention it, but I assume so," he answers.  "I went to find Carol--"
"Got her location from your friend?" Dean interrupts.  "I forgot to ask, how did they get messages to you?  Pony express?"
"Privileged information," Micah says, sounding annoyed at being interrupted, which is a shame.  "She didn't want to leave the state, however, and then we came here.  Just outside Ichabod, Carol was attacked by a Hellhound, which seemed to confirm what Jeffrey told me.  Then I discovered you were alive, which should mean the contract isn't done--"
"Seriously, you bought Cas was gonna open Purgatory and conquer the world?" Dean asks curiously.
"--but it seems he was correct regarding Erica," Micah finishes, voice hardening as Dean grins at him.
"So wanna tell me when you found out Erica was here?" He watches Micah's face carefully, but nothing; guy might play a decent game of poker after all.  "Let me guess: when you were running away from danger and leaving your girlfriend to a Hellhound?  Just me, or do you see a pattern here?  You plus danger equals--"
"Our group was too far away to help her," he answers coolly, like he's talking about someone he just met and not someone he was living with at least a couple of months.  "I saw Erica watching."
"In a different body," Dean points out and sees the muscles in Micah's jaw tense.  "Couldn't tell if Jeffrey was the demon you made contract but a glimpse of a woman in a red dress, you just knew?"
"I guessed, as should be obvious," Micah says in the fourth most condescending voice he's ever had the privilege to hear (Winchester men take up the top two slots, but Cas is a close third).  "For that matter, Erica is--distinctive.  She was my team leader--"
"For two weeks."
"--and my wife's," Micah continues impatiently, and Dean's still enjoying being petty as shit when 'wife' penetrates.  "She was a frequent visitor to our cabin."
"Erica, always the social butterfly," Dean agrees: Christ, wife.
Micah's lips curve in a faint smirk.  "Did she neglect to mention that?  I understand she was rather--free with her favors after I left Chitaqua. Including with you."
Free with her favors: who says that these days?  "Why would she?" he asks, using the exact voice Sam would use on Dad (ages fourteen to eighteen) in a rarely attempted but insanely effective 'bait Dad with maliciously earnest rhetorical questions until he explodes'.  (Dean would end up sleeping in the Impala to avoid being accused of not being supportive and/or undermining someone's authority.  Fun times.)  "Dude, abandoning your wife?  We call that 'divorce' in the infected zone."
"She tried--"
"To kill you, yeah, I heard," he interrupts, rolling his eyes.  "Me, I'd start asking myself if I really want to talk about this, in case someone--I wonder who?--might want to know what the hell you did that got you a going-away scar. I ask Alicia--one of my team leaders--what do you think she'd tell me?"
"She'd lie," Micah answers, amused. "As she always does.  Which I think--correct me if I'm wrong--you know as well as I do.  At least now."
"She did it well enough, I'd go for it," Dean tells him.  "You, on the other hand, not so much."
Micah's genuine surprise would be fucking hilarious under any other circumstances.  "Why would I lie?"  Underneath: why would you believe her over me? Like he just can't imagine it was even possible.  Honest to God, he'd believe Erica over Micah right now.
"Could be pathological," he points out.  "Could be you're trying to distract me, could be Alicia stabbed your ass to the curb and you're a little bitter, could be you're a dick.  Pick any and all: I don't give a shit. Back to Erica: you guessed?"
It takes Micah a second to unclench his jaw.  "Yes, I guessed."
"And you were outside the walls yesterday...why?  Knowing Erica and her pets were hanging around?"
"I wanted to warn Alicia," Micah answers, voice losing some of its smoothness.  "You may not believe me--"
"I don't," Dean says reassuringly.  "Not a word you say."
"--but Erica was obsessed with her, and Alicia's still my wife," Micah continues, an edge of anger in his voice, and somehow, Dean doesn't think that has anything to do with being interrupted this time.  "I wanted to make sure she knew."
"The last time you saw Alicia was two years ago, and she was on Erica's team the entire time," Dean tells him.  "Pretty sure she knew Erica better than you did.  Try again."
Micah looks dangerously close to losing that lawyer-calm.  "You know," he says suddenly.  "You're nothing like I remember."
"Funny story," Dean tells him. "I barely remember you at all.  Thought your name was 'Mikey': sorry about that.  Back to--"
"Outside the walls," Micah interrupts sharply and looks annoyed with himself, blue eyes fastening on Dean resentfully.  "I wanted to talk to Alicia, and I knew she wouldn't see me if I tried to visit your headquarters."
"I get what you're saying," he agrees.  "Look, it's kind of obscure, but my understanding is that might be a sign to leave them the fuck alone.  Future reference."
"She's my wife."
Like someone would talk about their goddamn car or their dog.  "She's not anything to you unless she says so," he says quietly, and Micah stiffens, eyes narrowing.  "Now, let's start at the top and go over this again: you summoned Jeffrey."
Micah frowns.  "Why?"
"For fun," Dean answers with a shrug.  "Go."
Castiel has just enough time to greet Jeremy and Joelle at the front desk when the doors to their headquarters open and the checkpoint teams spill inside, exhausted and looking a combination of relieved and grim.
"Welcome back," he says, scanning for any injuries.  "Does anyone need medical attention?"
"We're fine," James says, Lee and Damiel nodding tired agreement.  "Alison cleared us to come back early; we had a couple of potential pneumonias going on, one under ten."  He seems to brace himself before saying, "Uh, thirty refugees yesterday, twenty-two more showed up before we left, no one on the roads--"
"One question," he interrupts, noting Lee seems to be listing to port and Jane subtly trying to support him despite the foot difference in their height.  "Is there anything I need to know that will in any way affect any of us individually, Chitaqua, Ichabod, or the Alliance?  In the next twelve hours?"
Damiel frowns, brown eyes unfocused.  "Short version: fifty two people, no more in sight, freezing night trading going outside the buses so there wouldn’t be a catalyst event, nothing came near us, came home."
"Excellent," he says approvingly.  "Food, shower, and sleep: the debriefing can wait.  Consider yourself off-duty for the next eight hours at minimum, unless you wish to attend the burning this evening."
James winces, and Castiel thinks he definitely could have phrased that better.  "Are we--uh, Andy...."
"That will be Kat's decision," he answers.  "Leave word at the front desk if you wish to attend should she agree and someone will wake you."  He nods toward the mess.  "Now please feed yourselves and catch up on the gossip as you will.  If I'm needed, I'll be in the Situation Room."
"Thanks," James says, reaching to tug Nate toward him as he hooks an arm over Mira's shoulders and herds them both toward the mess.  For a moment, he's tempted to call Nate back but decides against it; for one, an exhausted Nate is one who runs into walls (James firmly steers him away when he looks in danger of doing just that, proving his point) and two, he's not entirely sure how to question Nate about perfectly normal rooms.
He looks at the stairs reluctantly, then reminds himself firmly of duty: he needs to speak to Kat (or preferably, Sarah who will tell him what Kat's answer is).  Leaving word with Jeremy in case he's needed, he takes the steps two at a time and braces himself as he makes his way to their room.  Knocking on the door, he waits patiently until it cracks open, revealing Sarah.
"Just a minute," she says, and at his nod, closes the door again.  He hears indistinct voices inside before she comes out again.  "Everything okay?"
"Yes," he says.  "Is Kat available--we need to make a decision on Andy's remains.  Ichabod is burning their dead tonight, and Dean says it's Kat's decision on whether Andy is included."
Sarah nods thoughtfully.  "Let me talk to her: wait here."
He doesn't ask why she asked him to wait; the answer comes through the door at considerable volume (and many words) before Sarah gently comes outside and shuts it firmly behind her.  "I think she would rather wait--if possible--for our return to Chitaqua."
"I had no idea you were diplomatically inclined."  Studying her carefully, he detects the faintest signs of stress around her eyes. Even Sarah's rigid calm is being tested, and that says a great deal.  "How is she?"
"She's--very upset," Sarah answers slowly, brow creasing.  "I asked Vera if perhaps Ichabod had a counselor available, but Kat adamantly rejected the suggestion."
"In that case, do you think Carol's presence is a good idea?"
"I do, if for no other reason than she requested to see her." She hesitates briefly before meeting Castiel's eyes. "I don't think it would be a good idea for Alicia and her team or Dean to visit at this time, though."
"Is she an active danger to them?"
There are times that Sarah's distance is somewhat disconcerting, but it also makes her one of the few people who doesn't allow emotion to influence her judgement.  She thinks carefully before slowly shaking her head.  "No, but she's always been prone to reacting without thinking, and now she's not thinking at all.  It's better for all parties concerned to be separate for the time being."
"How long is your shift with her?"
"Drew and I have been with her for the last two hours," she answers.  "Phil and Amanda are taking our place in two hours."
"Vera is asking Dolores to have Carol brought here," he says, noting Sarah's almost indiscernible relaxation and making an executive decision.  "When she arrives, you, Drew, and Phil are officially off-duty until dawn; I'll arrange that Kat and Carol have someone with them while she's here.  If you need something to do, go to the Volunteer Center, but I'd prefer you take some time for yourselves, and I hope you feel the same."
"Patrol--" she starts.
"Alison ordered the gates shut and no one, including patrol, is allowed outside until--I assume the emergency ends," he tells her.  "Right now, the combined patrol is taking the opportunity to rest and familiarize the volunteers with the wall and Ichabod's defenses.  When we are needed, we'll be called, but Manuel and Teresa feel--and I agree--that the Alliance's primary patrol members and Chitaqua should save ourselves for when our skills are going to be needed to do what most of those here cannot.  Other than designated shifts on the wall and with Volunteer Services, it is expected all members of Chitaqua will take sufficient time to eat and rest.  The barrier will fall in two days, and unless we are ridiculously fortunate, we'll be needed then."
She considers that before nodding, and Castiel adds Sarah to the list of people that Dean has taught to think about orders, not simply listen and obey.
"I would like to go down to the training field for a couple of hours," Sarah admits, like she's confessing an embarrassing social disease.  "I haven't had an opportunity to train for the last few days, and we could use some relaxation."
That does sound relaxing; he makes a mental note to spend a little time today longing for a few hours of shooting targets and attacking dummies--or Amanda--since he doubts he'll have time for the reality.  
"I'll be in the Situation Room," he says.  "Report before you leave, and if anyone else wishes to go with you, take them."
"I will," she says, and he correctly interprets her almost-expression as anticipatory and returns back downstairs, satisfied with his work as a commander.
When he arrives in the Situation Room, he finds Haruhi helping Derek with the boxes (excellent progress) while Victoria works on the laptop enthusiastically.  Seeing him enter, Haruhi gets up with a smile.  "Hey, what's up?"
"The checkpoint teams returned and are in need of news, food, and rest, the former two they're acquiring in the mess."  He looks around the room. "Where's Rosario?"
"Laundry," Haruhi answers.  "She volunteered when Vicky threatened to teach her Excel and kind of ran for it."
"Hey," Victoria says without looking up.  
"With--Freddy, I think?" Haruhi continues, frowning.  "Brown hair, kind of cute, wears the thickest glasses I've ever seen."
"Frederick," he says, nodding. "He's slightly nearsighted, but he only uses those for engine repair; the top half of the lens is for magnification."
"That would explain the faint aroma of motor oil," she says, nodding.  "And the contents of his laundry basket. Oh, he told me to tell you that he's available, so if you need him, he's doing laundry for basically everyone.  Including yours and Dean's, and he told me to tell you he hopes that's okay, but he got word Alison's ordering water rationing across the board and it may be our last chance for clean clothes."
Castiel thinks about that and winces. "How much rationing?"
"Everything but drinking water," she says with a sigh. "Before you ask, I know nothing of anything to do with toilets or pipes, but you know all those holes from the buildings that are now Wall?" He nods. "At least a few were repurposed for emergency waste disposal, so...."
"We're at latrines?" he asks and wishes he didn't have to.
"With these kinds of numbers, that or the equivalent."  She winces.  "Luckily, we've had to deal with it a few times when the waste plant kind of--broke--so we know how to avoid poisoning ourselves, but--Cas, I don't have details and I don't want them, please don’t make me go get them.  Some things should remain a mystery to the common man."
"Done," he agrees reluctantly; he'd like not to know either, but he's probably going to need to find out.  "Is there anything else?"
"God I hope not," Haruhi answers as he joins Victoria when she motions for him to look at something on the screen.  "Need me to do anything?"


"I do.  Very good," he says approvingly to Victoria.  "Lee, James, and Damiel are to be kept off the duty roster until hopefully morning, so fit them in there as you will.  Haruhi, I need you to find Amanda and ask her to come here; we'll be hosting Carol today, and I need to discover what it will cost me for her to act as escort for Carol and Kat without worrying about revenge at some unspecified time."
Haruhi cocks her head, thinking.  "Carol...former Chitaqua, Andy's ex, did I get it right?"
"You did," he confirms with a smile.  "Excellent gossip skills."
"I try," she says, smiling back.  "If you don't have anything else for me, I can hang with Amanda today, give her some support."
"I think she's appreciate it."  Which reminds him; he should speak to Alicia if Carol is going to be in residence.  "Thank you."
"I think she's with Manuel and Teresa helping get everyone familiar with the Wall," she says.  "On my way back, you want me to grab you some coffee?"
"Yes, please," he says, then looks around the room and realizes something's missing.  "Where's Dean?"
"Dunno," she answers as she starts toward the door.  "Kamal came by to talk to him and they left.  Maybe they left word up front?"
At the second one hour check, they break for lunch.  Dean and Joe settle in an empty room, Joe glaring at him over really good beef-rice-green-vegetable casserole and tortillas.  "What?"
"Anything else you forgot to mention?" Joe asks, tearing off a bite of tortilla like he's rending Dean's flesh or something.  "Just curious."
"Alicia's business," he says through a mouthful just to see Joe wince (he doesn't, the fucker). 
"You really want to go with that?"
Yeah, he didn't think that'd work.  "Joe, I haven't even told Cas yet. I wanted to at least talk to Micah before dropping 'hey, found one of your assassins, how about that?' on him.  Especially with everything else going on."
Joe's glare continues for a whole five seconds before he sighs, nodding.  "Okay, give you that one."
Dean uses the next two bites to ignore he still has no idea how to tell Cas, and now also has to explain why he didn't tell him before.
"So how consistent was he from first rendition to third?" he asks Joe curiously, glancing at the closed notebook.
"Well within margin, especially since he only practiced for one time," Joe answers, glancing at it as well.  "Matches Carol, but no surprise there.  I'd really like to know how hospital staff missed him visiting her before the surgery, though.  Especially for long enough to get their stories straight."
"A lot of ways, especially if Carol was doing the hostile thing to minimize anything but necessary medical check-ins," he answers.  "Any word on the idiots two?"
"Nope.  Micah told Naresh they didn't want to deal with guilt by association or something," Joe says, looking annoyed.  "Which I kind of believe.  What I'm curious about now is if they're under contract, too."
"Or if they know Micah is."  Dean plays with his fork for a moment.  "Okay, I gotta know; why does everyone hate him but Carol?  Gonna level with you; I barely remember the guy."
"It helps if you aren't his distant, mostly-absent leader and have to actually interact with him," Joe retorts.  "A lot of the ones from the first class were dicks, but Micah...he was used to thinking he was the smartest guy in the room and that meaning something."  Joe takes another bite, shaking his head.  "Honest to God, Dean, I never would have guessed Alicia and Micah were married."
"They were living together," Dean says, scraping the remaining casserole into a tortilla and rolling it up. This would be awesome with cheese, which is officially now restricted to the twelve and under set.  "What difference does it make?"
"Not the same thing," he argues.  "There's Sheila and Mike living together, all weirdly adorable mitten-making shenanigans--or you and Cas, just weird but you do you--"
"You're a real comedian," Dean retorts, taking a bite and finding it goddamn fantastic. He's totally learning to make tortillas.
"Just saying, when you're together, it shows.  Alicia and Micah lived in the same cabin but it wasn't together, you get what I’m saying?"  Actually, he kind of does.  "Though yeah, sex was happening I guess, though gonna tell you, I'm pretending it was chaste."
Dean finishes chewing his late bite before saying casually, "What was Alicia like back then?  I don't really remember much except when she was with Erica's team."
"Honestly?  I don't remember, either," Joe answers.  "I mean, she was on missions with Erica a lot, but she might as well have been invisible.  Didn't really get to know her until after training, when Cas started his night classes."
"How many from the first class showed up those anyway?"
"Just Risa, Joan--let me think--Kellie, and Ray at first," he answers, face screwing up in a frown.  "No surprises there: Risa was intense, always wanting to get better, and Joan had two very good reasons to want to hang out and watch certain people sweat."
"Cas and Amanda," Dean says, remembering what Cas told him about Amanda getting Joan to steal Vicodin for her.  "Really?"
"Off and on for about a year; it was kind of a weird symmetry going on there, no idea," Joe says, looking baffled.  "Then again, not so strange--nothing, and I mean nothing fazed her, and in training or after missions, Cas and Amanda took a while to come down.  Guess the two afterparties worked for her; talk about living the dream."  He gives Dean a saccharine smile.  "You'd know better than I do, I guess."
Dean rolls his eyes.  "And Alicia?"
"Not sure," he answers, scraping his plate clean and retrieving the last tortilla; Dean has yet to see any food thrown away by any member of Chitaqua.  "I'm not kidding about Alicia being invisible.  It wasn't until learning the meaning of fear of sharp objects when I saw Cas putting her through one of the master dances one day that I even remembered she existed, and she was on Erica's team.  I'd already been to the border twice by then with them as escort."
"Then why did you recruit her to help you out?"  Joe makes a face.  "She figured it out.  Of course she did."
"She did," Joe agrees wryly.  "Third trip, no less." 
"She ever tell you how she found out?"
"Oh yeah.  Apparently, pattern of the cabins I visited one to three days before I left, how long I stayed--both before I left and after I came back--the notebook I had with me only at those times, and why at the border, one of the random techs--just that one--always looked really happy to see me even though I did all my business with the station manager."
"That's it?"
"No," Joe answers with a grin.  "That's just what she'd admit."  After stacking their empty plates together on the tray, he faces Dean, abruptly serious.  "I don't like this."
"Wanna be more specific?"
"Carol and Micah being incredibly forthcoming during questioning," he says, picking up the notebook.  "The missing idiots two.  How easy we found Micah."
Dean raises his eyebrows.  "Easy?"
"We got roughly thirty-five square miles inside the walls--"
"Holy shit.  Really?"
"Math doesn't lie, usually," Joe answers.  "There's a lot of places to hide and we don't have a lot of people on this.  Yes, he could be stupid or have really bad luck, but what are the chances?"
It's not that Joe doesn't have a point; it's that their list of shit happening is too long already.  One simple thing, just one, that's all he asks.  "Or," he says, because he's gotta try, "he wants us to protect him.  Come on, this is a guy who left his girlfriend to almost be eaten by a Hellhound.  And Carol's committed: she was okay with the almost-eaten part!"
Joe makes a face.  "See, I like that too much."
"How about this," Dean says.  "We split the difference; see if Naresh will release him to us and we'll store him in Headquarters. If it's about protection--well, we do that." They do that, he reminds himself firmly: saving people, helping things, even Micah.  "If it's a threat to Ichabod or whatever, he's contained."
"Either way, he's our problem," Joe says in gloomy triumph. "Oh yeah, loving this."
They both startle at a knock to the door, and at Joe's "Yeah, come in," Lalitha peers in.
"Prisoner rights have been achieved and he only complained about the food three times," she says, leaning in the doorway.  "Also, he would like me to tell you to please hurry."
"What, he's got another appointment?" Dean asks, giving Joe a wry look.  "Thanks, Lalitha."
"Five minutes," she warns him.  "Rights of prisoners doesn't include defenestrating them, and I'd hate to become a criminal."
When the door closes, Dean gets to his feet.  "Anything you want me to add this time?"
"Same script," Joe answers, paging through his notes before motioning Dean over.  "For our Item #2, since I know you're going to ask.  Just some suggestions."
Nodding, he reads through the notes carefully.  "Yeah, I got all that." Straightening, he makes himself look normal. "Anything else?"
"Yeah, one thing," Joe says, standing up and looking down at him.  "It wasn't your fault.  Nothing he says can change that."
"Right," he agrees. "Can do."
Castiel knocks twice for courtesy and waits for five seconds before opening the door to reveal a darkened room. "Alicia? Matt?"  He wonders if he should have seen to Alicia and her team sooner; Vera was correct that Alicia requires distraction.
"I'm here," her voice says tiredly, and Castiel flips on the light to see Alicia pushing herself up from her sleeping bag. In the harsh fluorescent illumination, she looks almost haggard, dark hair loose around her face as she looks up at him from behind unreadable eyes.  "Sorry, I--"
"You were sitting in the dark thinking depressing thoughts," he says, leaning against the doorway and then reconsidering and closing the door behind him.  "You told me I wasn't supposed to do that, for it led to melancholia and rethinking your life and your choices and that is a terrible idea."
Shifting to a cross-legged position, she smiles faintly.  "I did, yeah."
"Then you said I needed a distraction and provided it yourself," he adds, joining her on the other side of the sleeping bag.  "You're very good at that."
She turns to face him, and this close, he can see the grey smudges beneath her eyes, rims reddened.  "I am very good at distraction.  Sometimes, I think that's all I do; distract myself.  Thinking, terrible idea, who thought of that?"
He tilts his head at the sight of her mouth starting to tremble.  "Is there anything I can do to help?"
She lowers her head, dark hair concealing her face.  "Any chance you can do a one-off in time-travel?  There's this grocery store, I was twenty-three--Trader Joe's, steel cut oatmeal--and I need to decide not to try it.  Totally not worth it."
Castiel wonders what difference 'steel cut' makes with oatmeal.  "Was it bad?"
"I don't even like oatmeal," she says, voice quivering.  "I can't even remember why I wanted it.  I would have lived happy without it; it was also really bland."
Shifting closer, he reaches to tilt up her face and sees the track of tears. "Alicia?"
"I'm fine," she lies dramatically, wiping her eyes.  "Tired, Andy, my life and my choices, you know?"
"Where are Jody and Matt?"  He is less than impressed with them if they would leave their team leader in this state without warning someone they'd be absent.  
"Volunteer Services." She must see something in his expression, because she shakes her head. "We needed some time apart, it was getting....you know, people?  Less of them would be a good thing.  Geas, grief, antisocialism....tired?"
"Which one?"
"Could be any of them."  She takes a deep breath and straightens.  "Uh. So--uh, anything you need?"
There's no way to ease into the subject. "Has Dean talked to you?"
She stiffens, shoulders pulling back though she doesn't move, breath quickening; he's reminded of how an prey animal reacts when in the presence of a predator.  She'd been like that in training as well, but that was true of most of the class; humans are predators, but instinct is instinct.  It's one of the most difficult parts of training to correct it; if a hunter freezes, it's because the situation calls for it, not because they can't move.
"No," she says finally.  "Not since--uh.  Why?"
It seems his upcoming talk with Dean will have multiple subjects.  "We spoke to Carol, and it seems--she's involved with Micah. Among other things." The 'other things' are still limited, but of all people, he feels Alicia should know; another thing to discuss with Dean.  The list grows.
Alicia stares at him, blue eyes blank, before there's a flash of horror, there and gone.  "She's...." She looks at the door, then at him. "I need to talk to her, where is she--"
"No."  Reaching out, he grabs her arm before she can get to her feet and feels her freeze again; that's twice.  "Sit down."
She drops back down automatically, and slowly, carefully relaxes each muscle as Kamal taught them.
"She--was very hostile," he starts, unwilling to so much as consider repeating what he heard.  "I doubt she wants to see you, and I personally do not want you to much as share the same floor with her."
Alicia frowns.  "The same floor?"
"Kat wants to see her, I suppose regarding Andy," he says, and Alicia's lips part before she looks away. "Alicia?"
Alicia doesn't respond for a long time.  "What did Carol tell you?"
"I forgot."
"My feelings won't get hurt, promise," she says with a terrible attempt at casual.  "Was there anything specific she said?"
He briefly considers not answering, but he can't think of a good reason to deny her request other than his own feelings, and that's not a good reason.  "From Carol, the expected: disapproval of sex. Unless she does it, of course."
"That's standard," Alicia agrees with a flicker of amusement.  "Anything else?"
"She was offended on Micah's behalf by what happened between you before he left the camp," he says diplomatically (Micah's thigh and her knife coming in contact with bloody results).  "More than I think could possibly be justified under the circumstances." He watches her face carefully.  "Grief can make people--irrational, and I feel perhaps it would be best for all parties to be...separated."
She frowns.  "Separated?"
"Far apart," he agrees.  "There's an empty room on the third floor--"
"Not the marble office of wrong."
"No," he assures her.  "Next door to it. Joseph thinks it was a supply room of some kind.  It's very pleasant and the window is very meticulously taped.  I think you and your team would be more comfortable there."
She nods quickly.  "It'll bother them having me this close--"
"I really don't care if it bothers them," he says honestly.  "While I am currently neutral on Kat, as it is wrong to judge those who are grieving, I disliked Carol before and on renewing the acquaintance have discovered new and untapped reservoirs of dislike.  I see no need for you to be exposed to their hostility, and so I'm using my power as Chitaqua's second in command to move you to somewhere more congenial, which is anywhere they are not."
Alicia stares at him wordlessly. 
"Nepotism," he explains.  "Very useful."
"Oh."  She swallows, face crumpling suddenly before she looks away.  "Okay, yeah.  I can--we'll do that. Uh, where again--"
"I'll show you," he tells her, getting to his feet and looking around the room.  "Let's start packing, shall we?"
Fourth repetition, same as the first three (though faster), but then again, that might be Dean; Micah just looks patient, like he could wait all day for Dean to ask.  
So he does.  
"Tell me about the contract," he says, ignoring Micah's there-and-gone smirk.  With an effort, he reminds himself of Joe's advice on how to start.  
"Start with the terms."
"Erica and Luke told me the terms," Micah answers, "We needed to be better so we could win, and he promised that he could make it happen. Be the best hunters. Which I'm sure Carol told you."
"Yeah, she followed the script fine, don't worry," Dean assures him and sees Micah's lips tighten in surprise; lawyer, used to thinking he's the smartest guy in the room, got it.  Dean may not be all that smart, but honest to God, two people so eager to spill their secrets is kind of a gimme.  "Just almost didn't believe it.  Dude, you're a lawyer; don't tell me you actually signed."
"The terms were defined by 'hunter'; anything we could do would only affect the supernatural when we were hunting," he answers stiffly.  "Erica decided the terms. Unfortunately, she didn't consult someone competent before doing it, so she wrote the script for everyone to match hers.  Trust me, I could have done better."
Oh yeah, outsmarting a demon: he'd love to see Micah try.  "Got any details or did you just sign on the dotted line like a good like future murderer?"
"Strength, speed, accuracy with any weapon, and automatic probability manipulation when we were hunting," he answers, combining 'bored' with 'condescending'. "That means--"
"You got lucky in fights," Dean finishes for him, thinking about Cas's lesson on probability and beings on the mortal plane.  "There were restrictions; did you notice that part or just figure demons made contracts because they're nice? This is fun for them, you know that, right?  If they can fuck you over before they take you to Hell, they'll do it.  You're lucky they went with spirit and your superpower isn't a really cool ability to bring down deer and lure rabbits to you with the power of your hunger."  Though he can't lie, holy shit would that be useful right now.
Give him credit, Micah simply looks at him, but come on, it's not like Dean can't guess how this went down.
"None of you knew," Dean confirms.  "Not until you tried to use your hunter superpowers on a human." Micah starts, like he didn't expect Dean to figure out the goddamn obvious.  "And?"
"And what?"
"Humans who do magic, prophets, psychics, clairvoyants...." Micah's expression doesn't change.  "Does it work on them?"
"I don't know," he replies, but Dean hears the lie; he does know.  Because one of them tested that, too, Jesus Christ.  "I was only on patrol a few weeks and went on three missions before I left.  It's not as if I had opportunity to test everything myself."
Fair enough.  "Do you remember the script for the deal?"  Micah nods.  "I want you to write it down, full and complete.  Now now though; let's talk about the time limit."
"Ten years or your death," Micah answers.  "With a reversion clause: contract would be canceled if we beat Lucifer before the ten year limit.  That much, she got right."
Dean doesn't so much as shift position: a reversion clause.  That's unexpected.  "Whose idea was it?"
"Erica's, I think," Micah answers, looking for all the world like he's in a courtroom instead of sitting on a sagging cot.  "From what I heard, Luke was considering it already, however. He and Erica went together to the Crossroads the first time.  They waited for Stanley and Terry to agree before telling them the rest of the plan."
Yeah, the best part. "They wanted to get the entire camp in on this."
"That was the idea," Micah agrees.  "From what I understand, they first approached those they thought were certain to agree, then started expanding, but I can't tell you more than that."
"Who took the deal?"
"I don't know."  Micah shrugs at his disbelieving look. "The team leaders wouldn't tell us much--they didn't trust us not to talk.  They decided who was asked to go, and frankly, I didn't want to know or care.  I just wanted that gun not to be pointed at my head."
"Any idea how many were killed because they wouldn't sign?"
"No, but if they died on patrol, there's a good chance that was why."
"And they assumed no one would notice the casualty count?" he asks incredulously and knows it's a mistake when Micah's eyebrows jump, mouth curving in a faint smile.
"You didn't," he answers.  "So it didn't matter who else did; it wasn't as if anyone would have the nerve to accuse your lieutenants of murder."  
"When did that start?"
"I don't know, but probably soon after training was complete." That matches this Dean's journal, the earliest deaths on patrol that became a pattern over the next month and--though no way to tell, since he wasn't big on commentary--the reason Dean wanted to recruit again.  "They took me just before Castiel started training the second class. They thought you were going to let the team leaders handle the training and wanted as many of the first class as possible finished first.  When they found out Cas agreed to do it…."  
"They were pissed?" Dean asks.  "Why?"
"Erica wasn't very forthcoming on that," Micah says slowly, frowning. "It wasn't just that, though; they didn't like the new recruits."
Huh.  "What did they do to piss Erica and company off?"
"Nothing, as far as I know.  Even before you and Cas got back, they watched them all the time.  When Cas started working with them, one of us was assigned to watch them on the field, tell them everything that happened.  It was just training," he adds, sounding baffled.  "I still don't know what they were looking for."
Cas said this Dean didn't observe training; the team leaders, however, did, and there might have been a reason for that.  "Why'd they go after Cas?  Don't try to tell me it was all about Vera."
"I wasn't going to," Micah says, unruffled.  "I don't know what set them off.  I told them it was a bad idea, but the team leaders weren't listening."
Dean blinks slowly enough to convey 'bullshit'.  "You told them not to kill Cas?  Because it was...wrong?"
"It was badly planned, badly timed, and stupid to do it in the camp," Micah answers.  "And ridiculously obvious: most of the camp was aware something was going to happen that night, and there was no possible way they could hide what happened from you.  Best case scenario, we'd be thrown out of Chitaqua--"
"That was never an option," Dean interrupts pleasantly and Micah flinches: good.  "Why not do it in the field; at least then they could try and claim accidental shooting or something."
"They did," Micah answers, and Dean's breath catches in his throat.  "At least, Erica and Luke claimed they tried.  They said they couldn't get a clean shot when Cas was fighting--and he was fast--and he was almost always with you.  Erica didn't think you would take it well if you saw Cas hit right beside you and might not wait for anyone to put up a defense."
"Got that right." His entire right hand feels like it's one giant, massive cramp; even trying to move his fingers hurts.
"In all honesty," Micah continues thoughtfully, like they're discussing today's lunch menu, "I think they were too afraid to try.  Castiel in Chitaqua was someone who was constantly stoned and drank his weight in alcohol daily; Castiel in the field was--nothing like that."
Not a surprise at all.  "And they wanted numbers."
"They said it was to assure everyone would have equal blame and therefore not talk, but knowing Erica, she wanted as many guns trained on Cas's cabin as possible," Micah agrees.  "They were very confident once they had enough people to cover all possible angles of attack."
"How'd it go down?"
Micah shifts on the cot before settling again. "The day after Debra died, Erica gave us our instructions," he starts.  "Four hours after dusk the next night, we were to go to our assigned positions outside Castiel's cabin and wait for their signal.  Then we were to shoot until we ran out of bullets."
Dean hears himself say, "Tell me about the next day.  How'd it feel spending a day waiting to become an assassin?"
Micah is quiet for a long moment.  "Among the longest of my life."
Cas said: Rome was built and destroyed an hour after dawn and there were still more to come. It's forever in here.
"The team leaders called for a stand-down while you were out of the camp," Micah says, voice distant.  "They didn't even attempt to pretend they weren't waiting for something; they watched Castiel all day.  We all did; they told us to."
All around the fence, Cas told him. Vera was very clumsy, Joseph fell over Kamal's feet. Amanda nearly broke her wrist.
"The new recruits..." Micah licks his lips.  "They knew somehow.  You ever have someone look at you like--"  He cuts himself off with a faint grimace.  "Even Erica-- she knew she might have to kill all of them to keep them from talking, but she and Terry...they said they had work to do, but I think they couldn't stand how the recruits looked at them. You wouldn't think so, would you?  But it bothered her.  Castiel though....he didn't look at them at all.  It was like--like they weren't even there."
That must have burned; your victim doesn't even think you're worth watching.
"About midmorning," he says suddenly, "Vera and Amanda went back to their cabin, Erica and I were--I could hear her crying. Thin walls."  Dean closes his eyes. "Ten, maybe fifteen minutes, they come back out, and--she looked right at us, and just--went right back to the field."
Opening his eyes, he nods.  "What did you expect her to do?"
"Cut and run," he answers in surprise.  "If she'd left for good, they probably would have let her and concentrated on Cas.  She had two days; all she had to do was steal a jeep and go.  All of them knew, they had all day to get out of there, but they--it didn't make sense."
"It wouldn't, to you," Dean says softly, and Micah looks away.  "Keep going."
"When training was over, they all came back together, then--I didn't hear anything, but everyone just stopped. And Vera and Castiel went to his cabin."  Micah pauses for a long moment.  "And I went home to wait."
The day was forever, but it was nothing to the countdown starting at dusk.  He can't even imagine what that was like.  "Keep going."
"Four hours after dusk, we got into position," Micah says.  "I had the east window."
That would be the place in the cabin that can't keep a chair in front of it: it's always moved to the center point of the living room.  
"I could hear them talking--no idea what--and then I see Vera come to the window and open it.  Just stood there," he whispers.  "Like she was daring us to do it."
She was.
"Then we got the signal and started firing, just like Castiel taught us," Micah continues. "Until my clip was empty.  Erica and Stan were supposed to check, but no one moved, and over the ringing, I--I heard Castiel laughing."  He looks at Dean, and after all this time, just the memory seems to unnerve him.  "You could hear it all over the camp.  I ran, didn't look back, and I wasn't the only one."
He grins at Micah maliciously. "No one thought of that, huh?  What would happen if they failed?"
Micah doesn't answer, face carefully expressionless.
"They ever talk about how that could possibly have happened?" Dean continues.  "Twenty, thirty guns--"
"Double that at least," Micah interrupts, and Dean marks that down for later thought.  "And no, they didn't.  They tried to pretend like it--like it didn't even happen.  For all of a day," he adds with a flicker of malice. "Then Luke's dead and--I don't think any of them ever stopped waiting for Castiel's next bullet."
Fuck his life, he's finding common ground with Micah.  "At least they stuck around," he says. "Couldn't live with being a potential assassin?"
"Dean, I didn't want to--"
"You still did it."
Micah sits back, cocking his head in genuine surprise. "You think I would have signed that contract without a gun to my head?" he asks.  "I didn't want to be part of Erica's crusade, and I sure as hell wasn't interested in helping kill two people I barely knew, but it was them or me.  Erica and the others were going after them whether I said yes or no; 'yes' meant I got to live."
"You could have left, like you think Vera should have."
"And go where?" Micah demands.  "Dean, I didn't want to do it, but it's not like I had a choice."
"You had a choice." He's gotta get of here, think about this.  "And this interview's over--"
"I'm requesting Chitaqua's assistance," Micah says deliberately. "To protect my life from Hellhounds, due to a contract I was forced to make at gunpoint by your team leaders."
"I'm alive," Dean points out.  "Contract's not over, so you got, what, eight years--"
"Erica's here, and she's going to kill me even if it's not."
"She's Crossroads," Dean answers. "They can't do that; those are the rules."
"I was a professional at interpreting 'rules'," Micah retorts.  "You know as well as I do there's always a way around it, and if she hasn't discovered it yet, she'll make something up."
"Give you that," Dean agrees. "Still haven't told me why I should do shit for you."
"It's your mandate, or so I was taught," Micah says coolly.  "More practically, unless you plan to have me thrown outside the walls--which is possible but unlikely--I'm a danger to anyone and everyone around me.  It's Chitaqua or many, many innocent civilian lives: you decide."
Dean stares at him wordlessly.
"That's survival, Dean," Micah says, sitting back. "I'll wait."
Dean waits for Joe to fetch Micah's guards--who look a little forlorn--before jerking his head toward the empty room they were using earlier.  "Got everything?" he asks.
"Got it," Joe agrees, giving him the notebook that is now pretty well filled and utterly unreadable even when it's English (he thinks).  He's still working out if that's a letter or a stick figure when Joe abruptly says, "You get he's pissed at her, right?"
He jerks his gaze from the maybe-letter 'A'. "What?"
"He said 'us'," Joe says.  "He was trying to imply Alicia was involved."
Dean tightens his grip on the notebook. "Joe, he said a lot of shit--"
"Yeah, and going down, he's gonna take her with him," Joe interrupts urgently. "She wasn't part of it, Dean."
"You didn't even remember her before she started coming to night school," Dean says, wondering how on earth he can sound so normal.  "I get it, everyone's friends now, but come on.  Anyone could have been there."
"Anyone, yeah, but not her."  Joe leans carefully against the card table. "Dean, I didn't know her then, but I got to know her after, and cold blooded murderer she is not."
The memory of Alicia with that knife outside Ichabod, waiting for Micah to get into range, crosses his mind; there was nothing about the way she held herself that said 'warning' or 'flesh wound'.  She meant to kill him, and fuck knows she had a damn good reason not to want him to talk to anyone.  The only thing he can't figure out is how the fuck she planned to explain cold-blooded murder in front of a bunch of volunteer civilians after the fact; if she wanted Micah dead, she knew exactly where he was and he doesn't doubt she could get the job done without anyone knowing a thing.
"Dean--"
"Dude, come on," he hears himself say instead of telling Joe that Micah didn't need to imply shit. "You're telling me--me--not to trust the honesty of a guy who left his girlfriend to die by Hellhound and that's not the first or last of his greatest hits?"
Joe hesitates, searching his face, then relaxes.  "Right.  So are we going to help him?"
From his expression, he already knows the answer and likes it about as much as Dean does. 
"I need to meet with the team leaders," he says evasively.  "Update them on what we know, have them talk to their teams--"  He stops at Joe's startled look.  "What?"
"You're going to tell them...what?"
"Everything."  He shrugs, squinting down at the notebook.  "Though dude, I'm gonna need this typed up, what language is this anyway?"
"Dean--"
"All of it," Dean interrupts, meeting Joe's eyes.  "What the team leaders were really doing, the contract, the deaths--everything.  Sins of omission, yeah, but this is one fuck of an omission; all this was going on right under my nose and I didn't see it.  They were my team leaders, and they were goddamn terrorists selling souls at the point of a gun in my own camp.  I'm not going to pretend it was anything but exactly what it was, and everyone deserves to know exactly what happened and why."
Joe crosses his arms, brown eyes thoughtful. "You sure about this?"
"Yeah." He closes the notebook with a snap.  "Some secrets gotta be kept, but this?  This isn't one of them."  Joe's expression doesn't change.  "You think it's a bad idea?"
"No," he answers, mouth quirking in an odd smile. "So, you want to keep that?"
"What, your notes?  That I can't read?"
"Yeah," he says slowly, like Dean's not paying attention.  "For Cas?  He can read them just fine.  Otherwise, you won't be sleeping on the couch tonight, but probably on the balcony, you get that, right?  You'll be lucky to get a blanket."
Dean wants to tell him he's wrong, but that would be a lie. "Yeah," he agrees, clutching the notebook against his chest.  "I'll do that, thanks."
Dean arrives back at Headquarters not sure how he feels or if he feels anything at all. All that speculation about what happened that night, now he knows from outside that cabin and still has what feels like more questions than he had before.
When he gets to the Situation Room, Cas is alone, sitting on the couch with his laptop on a chair, facing the door and typing steadily like there's nothing more important than the goddamn patrol schedule. Okay, then.
He closes the door behind him and turns the lock.  "Okay, let me explain, okay?"
Cas continues typing for a few ostentatious moments before pausing, saving, and slowly closing the lid of the laptop to focus infinite attention on Dean.  "All right."
Dean didn't prepare a speech (why not?), but one forms for him; it's reasonable, almost believable, and he may even get off light (maybe a bug-free couch).  Instead, he says, "I couldn't let you in that room with him."
Cas raises an eyebrow to express 'bullshit'.  "I appreciate your concern for my safety from an unarmed human prisoner--"
"He was at the cabin," Dean blurts out and Cas freezes. "Fuck, that wasn't...."  He looks around the Situation Room and realizes they can't do this here. "Joe's up front; I'll leave him to watch the kids. Come on."
Joe agrees with suspicious alacrity, murmuring "Want me to get a team looking for a couch?" in a way that's both sarcastic and depressingly sincere.  Following Cas up the spiral stairs, he faces the eternal length of the hall to be traversed in dead silence and wonders how the hell this is his life.  Then come stairs and another hall: this is gonna be great.
Then he notices a lot of activity going on down the other hall, and what looks like Carol in a wheelchair.  "Why is Carol here?" Dean asks, craning his neck to note Vera directing several people carrying what looks like medical equipment.  "What's going on?"
"Kat wants to see her, so I ordered the empty room beside her room outfitted for Carol's comfort," Cas says.  "Dolores approved it as long as she returns to the infirmary tonight.  Under the circumstances, I didn't think you'd have any objections."
Any other time, Dean might start to ask why the hell they're doing anything for Carol, but that day is not today. Under the circumstances, that is.  "Kat asked to see her?" he asks instead.
"Apparently."  As they reach the door to the back stairs, Cas hesitates before reaching for the handle, tensing as they go inside, and while he doesn't exactly run up them, there's no time for conversation until they emerge into the hall on the third floor.  
Dean opens his mouth to ask about that, then sees Alicia on the other side of the creepy marble office and stops short, door swinging closed behind them with a thump.  "What's she doing here?"
Cas stops a few steps away, turning to look at him in surprise.  "I moved her team up here."
"Why?"
"I didn't want her near Kat or Carol," Cas answers shortly.  "Is something wrong?"
Opening the door to what is apparently her new room, Alicia glances down the hall and stills as she sees him. Reaching for Cas's arm, Dean turns him toward their room, making himself not look back and wondering what the fuck he's supposed to do now.
Once their door closes behind them, Dean shoves Joe's notebook at Cas. "Here," he says.  "Whole thing right here, didn't miss a thing.  Hey, you want some coffee with that?"
Cas looks from the notebook to Dean and nods warily. "Yes, thank you."
"Awesome," he says, opening the door again.  "Be right back."
He doesn't bother knocking; from Alicia's expression and the way she's sitting on a newly unrolled sleeping bag, she was expecting him.  What she expects him to do is a mystery; he kind of wishes he could ask, because fuck if he knows.
He would have thrown Cyn out on her ass so fast she would've been seeing stars and asked no questions of Amanda if she disappeared for a couple of days; Micah, he would cheerfully toss outside Ichabod's walls and hope for the worst; sure, it helps they're both dicks and seem to actively work to piss him off, but that shouldn't matter.  Attempted murder is murder; it shouldn't fucking matter if he likes the person who did it.
"Did you tell him?" Dean demands roughly, shutting the door behind him.  It's a stupid question; he's pretty sure that Cas might have mentioned that at some point already. And probably not arranged to move her up here.
She shakes her head, tucking her knees against her chest in a painful echo of Cas, and he just stops himself from telling her to sit a different way. It's not helping.
"Have you told anyone else?"
"No," she answers tonelessly.  For a bitter, painfully honest moment, he wishes she hadn't told him, that she'd taken it to her grave.
Dean tries to flex his right hand and regrets it; the shock of pain arrows up to his shoulder.  "You don't go anywhere near Cas--"  Even he knows that's stupid.
"I didn't," she interrupts.  "He came by--to check on me, I guess--told me Carol was here and next thing I know, he's moving me up here.  So I wouldn't have to be exposed to their hostility only a few rooms away," she adds, and yeah, he does get the irony, thanks.
"I talked to your husband." Her expression doesn't change.  "Yesterday, before the Croats attacked, you were going to kill him."
"Yeah," she says simply, but something dangerous flickers in the blue eyes.  "I was."
He almost asks why then and not say, when he got here and saved them a shitload of problems; the words are actually on his tongue when he bites them back, startled.  He's actually not okay with outright murder, either, for the record.
"Matt and Jody will be gone until dusk," she says abruptly, saving him from thinking about that one too hard.  "They're at the Volunteer Center until dusk."
"Why...." He sucks in a breath.  "You sent them away to wait for me?"
"Yes." Slowly, she straightens, meeting his eyes without hesitation, and he remembers who he's talking to and what she does when she's given information and time to think about it. "Dean, I was on Erica's team.  Now I'm a team leader now--like they were--and I was involved in the...."
"Attempted assassination of Cas and Vera," Dean finishes for her.
Her throat works for a moment.  "Yeah. Now its time for what comes next."
"What do you think--"
"It's time for you to finish cleaning house," she answers reasonably.  "Other than Micah, I may be the only one of the assassins still alive, and even if I'm not, I'm definitely the highest ranked.  Cas appointed me himself.  This isn't new verse same as the first; it's a whole new world you're making--and you may not believe this, but I approve--but you can't have a lieutenant even suspected of involvement in anything that went on before. Outright assassination: exile with a ration pack and twenty-four hours to get out of Kansas isn't going to cut it, not with this.  You have to make me an example.  That means full, public confession of what I did and who I know was involved, and then you carry out the penalty."
Mouth dry, Dean stares at her; she can't be serious. "You think I should kill you?"
"Execute me," she corrects him with a hint of amusement. "Different thing.  See, unlike Vera and Cas, I actually deserve it."
Dean tries to work out when this conversation went wrong--for that matter, how it went wrong.  "Do you get a trial, pick the judges yet?  Just curious, looks like you got it all worked out already."
"I've had a few months to think about it," she tells him.  "The chances were fifty-fifty I'd be found out; either you'd work it out yourself or someone--either that you caught in the camp or one of our expats--saw me and would tell you."
"Why now and not the last two years?"
She tilts her head, surveying him like he remembers her doing to Cas's art-map and feels a chill travel down his spine.  When Cas told him about the physical differences between him and this Dean, Alicia was the one he mentioned by name.  She wasn't allowed in the cabin during the fever; when he had that cold, Cas examined him himself and told Alicia how he was doing and what he needed; she was the one who shouldn't see him without his shirt; she was the one who became Cas's source of gossip after Amanda left and was apparently good at it.  All that, and that was before they found out she was the one helping Joe get blackmail material on the border guard, before she worked out what was going on with the migration, before she figured out what it was that caused it.  Before he found out she was Erica's tactician.
Before Joe told him how she found out what he was doing at the border on the third goddamn visit.
She's been in and out of their cabin for months, done morning coffee and gossip with Cas, had access to Vera's medical records on both him and Cas, and he doesn't doubt she read them all.
"Doesn't really matter, you know?" she answers, blue eyes guileless.  "I don't look gift horses in the mouth, you know?" She leans back against the wall.  "If you want, I could fake an escape attempt, make it easier to--"
"Shut up."
Alicia shuts her mouth, eyes fixed on the wall behind him, and he can't do this.  He doesn't even know how.  "Tomorrow, I'm meeting with the team leaders about what Micah told us; Cas is reviewing Joe's notes now.  Look at me."  Her head jerks up.  "These are your orders.  What you told me, you don't tell anyone else, you understand?"
"No--"
"Then fake it," he interrupts.  "You'll be at the meeting tomorrow; I need everyone I got for when the barrier comes down, and one more thing.  We're negotiating with Naresh to have Micah transferred to us; he needs protection, and that's our mandate, after all."
"Protection from who?"
"Hellhounds," he says.  "You were right; he's under contract."
She straightens, knees dropping abruptly.  "He came here knowing...that's what Andy died for?"
He nods.  "And Erica's collecting."
"She would," she murmurs evasively, almost as if to herself.  "Sixty years and she's already working Crossroads: always knew she'd land on her feet." Abruptly, her gaze snaps to him.  "She came all the way here and sent a few hundred Croats after us just to get Micah?"
So he's not the only one.  "Technically, his contract's not even up."
Alicia gazes at the wall behind his head, and he can almost see her putting pieces in place, Erica, Micah, contract, Ichabod, marking each blank spot and going through a list of possible connectors.  It's not even a minute before her eyes focus on him, and he can read the suspicion on her face.  "When did he sign?"
"You'll find out tomorrow with everyone else," he says.  "Your job is to work out what she's actually doing here and why; after the meeting, I'll give you Joe's notes on my chat with Micah.  Trial's gonna have to wait.  Do you understand your orders?"
She nods slowly.  "Yes, sir."
Okay, he should go get coffee; even with Joe's handwriting, Cas reads fast.  But.  "Why'd you do it?"
She closes her eyes, lips thinning for a moment. "I made the wrong choice," she answers.  "I knew it when I said yes, and I still did it."
"That doesn't answer my question."
"I don't have a better one," she says.  "I was tired and I was scared and I didn't know them, so why should I...." She shakes her head.  "I went along with it because--that's what I always did."
"That's not a reason to do anything."
"It's a reason, it's just a shitty one," she says with a flicker of heat that vanishes almost before it starts. "They're all shitty reasons, Dean; no one has a good reason for murder, just excuses.  Are you going to tell Cas...you know, before--before...."
"I judge, jury, and execute?" He can't help the edge in his voice. "Seems like he should know before the trial--is there gonna be a trial, thought that far yet?"  She flinches. "Why?  Don't want to face him in the morning after he finds out one of his friends--and partners, Jesus Christ, almost forgot the part where you had sex with him--tried to kill him?"
"I don't, no." She takes a quick breath.  "But that's not why...he shouldn't have to see me after--after hearing that.  Neither of them should."
He wishes that he wasn't thinking pretty much the same goddamn thing.  There's dealing with the fact someone you care about tried to kill you, and then there's doing it while having to see them, give them orders...no.
"No, I'm not," he says, turning to the door in relief.  
He's almost out when Alicia says, "Look, I don't have the right to ask--"
"You don't," he says, opening the door.
"I'd like to go to the fire tonight," she says in a rush, and Dean slams the door shut, turning around.  That is the last place he thought anyone would want to go.
"Why?" he asks. "Some of those people, we...."  Shot, just say it. Killed. For suspicion of Croat.
"I know," she says.  "That's why."  She frowns, staring at her knees for a moment.  "When I was here before, I talked to--uh, people.  Mostly Karl, I mean.  It's tradition--they're good at making those, you know what I mean?  They--"
"Yeah."  He didn't even think about it, not unless Andy was going to be there, and he's pretty sure Cas would have told him if Kat had agreed to that.  
She nods quickly.  "Yeah, it's--their thing.  Karl said--he said it helped, not just...it helped everyone, even if it didn't feel like it should. I thought he was full of shit, but...but you know, I can be stupid sometimes."
Dean searches helplessly for anger to arm himself, but--  "Did you work the isolation room when you were here?"  
She nods, and like that, he can't argue anymore. He wants to--for fuck's sake, she's a goddamn murderer in intention if not fact, and that's only if she didn't help out hiding the bodies--but....
"Your team goes with you," he says in a facsimile of command, and if she thinks they're gonna be there to watch her and make sure she doesn't do--something, even he can't work out what--that's all to the best.  "Anything else?"
"No," she whispers, head still bent, and Dean wishes he could believe it was deliberate, trying to get him to feel sorry for her.  It'd be so much easier. "Thank you."
He goes out without another word, shutting the door behind him, and starts determinedly for the stairs; coffee would be good here.
When he gets back to their room, Cas is sitting on the neatly made bed staring down at the open notebook, which from his expression means he a.) actually could read Joe's handwriting and b.) read it all.
Handing over the coffee--already fixed--Dean sits down on the edge of the bed and tries to work out where to start.  Fortunately, Cas doesn't feel like waiting.
Closing the notebook, he sips his coffee.  "It doesn't make sense." 
"Which part?" Dean asks curiously.
"Telling us, for one thing."  Leaning back against the pillows, Cas frowns at nothing.  "If I understand the sequence of events correctly--not having been actually in the interrogation room to hear it myself--" Yeah, he didn't think Cas could avoid reminding him of that, probably for the rest of their lives. "--Micah, among others at Chitaqua, made a contract to become better hunters, which we'll leave for now and get to the part where roughly two months ago, he willingly summoned a demon due to his source of information, presumably at Chitaqua, going silent."
"One of the team leaders, maybe?" Dean asks dubiously, not really believing it; both Alicia and Micah said Erica hated him, and he's got the impression the four team leaders were uniform when it came to who they liked and who they didn't. Which makes him wonder why the hell they wanted him in the first place; Dean only spent part of the morning with him and kind of wants to drop him off in the middle of nowhere.  With Croats.
"I doubt it.  They would probably have seen him as a deserter from their cause," Cas replies, frown deepening as he takes another drink.  "Do you see where this falls down dramatically or is it my imagination?"
"Jeffrey," Dean agrees glumly.  "That guy sure gets around for someone who should have been killed by someone.  Anyone, Cas, come on."
"The same demon who happened to be stalking Chitaqua also happens to be the one that shows up when Micah calls," Cas continues, though Dean does note the lack of disagreement there.  "Micah flees to find Carol.  In completely unrelated events, roughly six weeks after this, Ichabod is unexpectedly attacked by Croats led by demons to finish the sacrifice of the children begun at the church.  The human infiltrators who helped do that apparently also took the time to set up the mass migration of the state of Kansas that was completed by people unknown due to the barrier collapsing--a barrier erected on your arrival as part of a plan apparently masterminded by demons, which led Micah and Carol here, pursued by Erica and Hellhounds."
"They're related."  Okay, that makes sense--maybe?--so now they have to figure out how.  
Cas takes another drink with a look that screams 'I wish we weren't on duty and could drink heavily'. "This would be why Crowley wanted you out of Ichabod," he says, almost as if to himself.  "In retrospect, perhaps his--attempt to assist in assuring that--isn't entirely unjustified."
Dean interprets 'assistance' as 'demon blood' and hell no.  "Hell.  No."
"Considering the trouble they took to get you here," Cas says, "I can see why they'd want to avoid you being killed now."
"Dude, if they were that worried about me being in danger, I think starting off with 'dropping me in front of some Croats in Kansas City' was a bad start."
"I was there," Cas answers. "There was no danger provided I saw you, and just as importantly...." He looks at Dean wryly. "Crowley told me that the one thing that would always get my attention was Dean Winchester; he was right.  They placed you there to assure I survived those Croats.  So I'd have a reason to want to."
Dean nods as neutrally as he can; that much he figured early on.  
"As long as the barrier was up and you were in Chitaqua, there was nothing that I couldn't easily protect you from--barring such events as the fever, which there's no possible way they could have known would occur--including the collapse of the barrier itself.  Behind Chitaqua's wards: Crowley commented on how powerful they were, and it didn't occur to me to wonder why."
"Cas?" Dean says uneasily when the silence goes from 'kind of weird' to 'this is gonna end badly'.  
"I told you that Crowley said someone was reporting on you," Cas says.  "But Crowley didn’t' know about the fever; he wondered why you weren't ready--whatever that means--which excludes anyone inside Chitaqua from being the reporter in question."
"No, it doesn't," Dean says, then shakes his head at Cas's querying look.  "Later, get back to why Crowley almost killing you is supposed to be a good thing.  They knew this was going to happen--"
"Not that you would be here, however," Cas interrupts.  "It was probably anticipated that you'd follow in your predecessor's footsteps and concentrate on the threat Lucifer posed, probably with my encouragement, since...."
He stares at Cas, cup forgotten in his hand as Cas smiles faintly.  "Cas?"
"That's what I failed to do," he says, amusement rippling through his voice.  "Dean lost Sam to Lucifer; that was why Dean abandoned the earlier plan to build up resistance against him and founded Chitaqua.  I was supposed to do as he did--to you.  Protect you, and train you as I did Dean's soldiers in Chitaqua and make you my weapon against Lucifer in revenge for Dean's death."
Dean opens his mouth and pauses, remembering his first weeks here, wearing those sigils that made him a ghost and actively anticipating Cas's hostile company. It was still better than no one at all.
"How--" He stops, clearing his throat.  "How'd they think you'd get me to--to go along with that?"
"I was an angel of the Lord," he says softly.  "Despite my usual performance when it comes to Dean--this time, I'd be doing it for him.  Perhaps...."  Abruptly, he looks away, taking a drink.  "Why they thought I'd be better at it now--or that you'd ever go along with it--is a mystery, however.  They don't know you."
Alone in a world he didn't know, in a camp that couldn't even see him, his only company literally Cas; how long would it take for him to break?  If Cas abruptly changed his tactics after a couple of weeks of softening him up with weeks of being a ghost?  Dean wants to say he wouldn't have let it happen, but that's assuming he even realized what Cas was doing.  Assuming he'd even care, as long as he wasn't left alone, and that's a pretty goddamn good assumption.  
Any Dean would get Cas's attention, sure--but he wouldn't be the right Dean, just a copy.  One Cas would protect but resent , one who would keep the wound of this Dean's death open and still bleeding whenever he looked at him.  Cas was supposed to use him; all that anger and grief and resentment turned into a weapon to make Dean one, too.  
Looking at Cas, drinking coffee and pushing his hair out of his eyes--fuck his life, that's still goddamn adorable--Dean remembers when he thought there was nothing left in Cas but anger; it looks like someone else was counting on just that.
And like Dean, they were wrong; what was left was Cas.  A person: who knew the difference between two Deans, that giving someone a choice meant more than hearing 'yes' but making sure they could say 'no'; how grief wasn't about getting over it, but learning to move beyond it; and twenty-six Croat-infested bodies brought back for their families, so they could learn to do just that.
"They didn't know you," Dean says, finishing off his cup.
Cas looks up in shittily-hidden relief.  "That much is true.  How they could think I would even able to--"
"Dude, you can do anything," he interrupts, sitting the cup on the wooden crate-slash-beside table by the lamp.  "You wouldn't.  Now--tell me where you were going with the 'Crowley stuffing you with demon blood' was okay.  Because this plan--which yeah, actually worked, go demons--could have gone wrong anywhere, so why would now be a problem?"
Cas regards him for a moment and then sits down his coffee cup, sliding to the edge of the bed and going to their bags.  Twisting around, Dean watches him rummaging and then realizes they're empty.
Also, the pile of clothes is missing.  "Did you do laundry?" He was gonna do their laundry, and not because he needs everything he can get to show how he's an awesome partner, especially today.
"Frederick and Rosario are doing it for the entire militia now, as Alison is instituting water rationing," Cas answers, taking something out as he returns to the bed.
"Rationing?" He really doesn't like the sound of that.  Then Cas closes the notebook and sets-- "You brought dice with you?"
"I like craps," Cas says mildly.  "I thought we would be attending a party, not--this.  I also brought cards and Uno, since I've never played and I want you to teach me."
"You never played Uno?"
"Like chess, I never found anyone I wanted to play with before," Cas says as he picks up the dice.  "Snake eyes."
The not entirely still surface of the bed doesn't seem to affect his throw. "I'm not betting this time."
"Very wise,  Boxcars," Cas agrees, picking up the dice and rolling again: yeah, this is fun and really illustrating...something.  "We weren't supposed to be in Ichabod to stop that attack; the children were supposed to die to prove the sacrificial circle worked and the human infiltrators were supposed to survive and finish the plan to get everyone to Ichabod except for those too stubborn for the geas to work with or those who were part of the sacrifice. All these people here--Alicia was correct, the humans working with the demons were trying to balance the wrong they committed, but only because a demon told them what they could do would accomplish that."
"They're all related," Dean says in glum satisfaction.
"No, it's much worse than that," Cas says, picking up the dice.  "Three and one." He rolls again and three and one, right there, then picks them up.  "The demons who designed this were so certain of where you'd be--in Chitaqua, being thoroughly brainwashed into taking up your assigned role while Kansas was protected by a barrier--that they didn't bother to control for any unexpected variables."  Rolling again, he bounces the bed with his heel and the dice roll off onto the bedspread, nestling in the folds. Dean looks from the dice to Cas.  "Crowley didn't know about the migration.  He didn't know you were visiting around the state at all, and sent demons that could have killed you.  He didn't know Erica was at the Crossroad; he never would have risked anyone seeing her break her conditioning."
Like this Dean: replace 'mission' with 'contract' and fuck everything else.
"Ichabod isn't the result of the great master plan," Cas confirms.  "Much like the unintended consequences of using a geas without controlling for mutation during its spread--or what would happen to this many people trapped in a small space with inadequate food and shelter--this is the unintended consequences of a plan that several different people--and groups--are taking advantage of without being aware the plan--such as it is--even exists.  All they can see is the parts, and they're using them.  Including Erica."
Picking up the dice, Dean shakes them idly in his hand, ignoring his right won't unclench at all now.  Just need some hot water and maybe remove the goddamn thing after all.  "So do we know which parts are which yet and who knows what or--anything?"
"That would be very helpful," Cas answers, glaring at him.  "So no, we don't.  Even probability couldn't account for this."
"Dude, you didn't need dice to tell me that."
"I've discovered," Cas says, eyeing Dean's hand resentfully, "that I have acquired something of a taste for winning, and this might be the last time I do before we all die."
"Six and two," Dean says, shaking the dice.  "Alea iacta est." They come up four and one.  Reaching out, he flips each one to the correct side and meets Cas's eyes.  "Then we'll make our own luck.  We're not dead yet."
Cas is verifying something between interrogation one and three when Dean notices the sun's almost down and remembers what Alicia said.  "Cas?"
"He's remarkably consistent, too much so," Cas says without favor.  "He was a lawyer, of course, and I instructed everyone on the basics of interrogation protocol.  You may be surprised to know he was the best in either class."
"You want to go to the burning tonight?"
Dean watches as Cas fumbles the notebook before he looks up, the flicker of guilt unmistakable; yeah, he does.
"Why didn't you say anything?" he demands, trying to keep the edge from his voice.  "Dude, if you want to--"
"You didn't mention wishing to go if Andy wasn't to be burned," Cas interrupts.  
"That doesn't mean you can't," Dean argues. "Let me grab my coat and we'll get out of here."
"That's why," Cas says.  "You don't want to, and I won't make you do something that will--upset you.  At least, not unless it's necessary."
"Or really funny," Dean points out in a steady voice, and Cas tilts his head before nodding solemn agreement.  "Look, you can't go alone--"
"I could," Cas points out.
"--but you're not."  He slides off the bed, waiting for Cas to put down the notebook and join him, and takes the opportunity to pull him closer, grinning into the warm blue eyes.  "Where you go, I go, okay?  Grab your coat and let's go."
Dean doesn't look in the mirror, taking care of business--okay, two different kinds of water-related business, and God, water rationing, he's not going to think about that right now--and looks around the room for a minute before remembering that one, his coat is downstairs in the lobby closet and two, he's got a different one, courtesy of Alison (he thinks) since his old one was kind of Croat-blood-soaked.
Jogging down the stairs--and pretending that hot water did shit for his hand and the ibuprofen will eventually help--he says, "Cas, did you see a grey coat in the...." 
The lobby is filled with people.
Okay, not filled.  Alicia and her team--not a surprise--with Matt wrapping a scarf around Alicia's neck with a frown while Jody nods agreement to something; Mel pulling on a pair of gloves while David buttons his coat; Amanda tucking a shapeless, hideous orange yarn hat over her head while Vera watches with a grin; Jeremy helping Joelle into a soft brown coat; Joe and Mariamne waiting at the door and damned if Joe isn't fighting not to reach for her hand; and Cas, armed for winter in an orange yarn hat like Amanda's (that he makes look good, fuck his life) and gloves, and holding Dean's coat and--another orange hat, he's seeing a theme here.
"Where--hat," Dean says vaguely, in lieu of any of the other dozen questions that spring to mind as he crosses the room.
"A gift from someone very kind with a great deal of orange yarn," Cas says, eyes flickering to those assembled and tilting his head.  With something not unlike a sigh, everyone takes out their orange yarn hats and puts them on, and Amanda starts to smile as Vera tucks it over her twists in resignation.  "I understand it's polite to send thank-you notes when one receives a gift," he continues, holding Dean's coat open and giving the impression Dean better just go with it.  "I expect everyone will have their notes complete by tomorrow morning so they can be delivered to Admin, where Alison can give them to the anonymous party."
Surrounded by a chorus of unenthusiastic agreement, Dean stands perfectly still as Cas carefully tucks the hat onto his head; sure, that's kind of embarrassing, but less than if he lost the fight trying to do it himself.  Also, that brings Cas closer (always a plus) and he can ask, "Why are..."
"Liz, Daniel, Phil and Drew are taking shifts in Amanda's place for a few hours, as they abruptly decided they would like to catch up with Carol and Kat," Cas murmurs, and Dean remembers that Amanda actually lives in Ichabod, even if she didn't know those that were killed personally.  "Before Kyle volunteered to visit with her as well and therefore trapping them all."
Poor fuckers: no good deed goes unpunished.
"Mark, Kamal and his regular team, and our recruits left about a quarter hour ago.  Jeremy is accompanying Joelle and meet with her mother once we get there; Joe is attending with Mariamne; Mel, David, and Vera weren't entirely clear on their reasons, but then again, I also didn't ask."
They're crazy, Dean thinks with a flicker of affection.  
"Vera," Cas says, buttoning Dean's coat with a serious expression (really, he should tell Cas he doesn't need to do that.  Anytime now), "how was Sudha when you left her?"
"Good.  Lewis is losing at poker to her, last I checked," she answers easily, not betraying by a flicker of her expression it's not just a casual question.  "They'll come get me if there's any change."
"You ready?" Joe asks as Cas smooths down the collar of Dean's coat.  "So let's go."
Dean didn't think to inquire on the logistics of burning upwards of twenty bodies (as in, he didn't want to think about it), but considering Ichabod had to burn three times that number of their residents after the Croat attack a few weeks ago, they seem to know how it's done.  Though granted, the Wall's kind of absorbed all the houses and places that you might go for easily accessible wood.
The location is about a quarter mile from the east side of Fourth Street--not far from the bonfire on New Year's Eve, come to think, though the bare, snow-covered ground that seems to stretch out forever, free of rubble, makes it hard to be sure. He's not sure what was here before, but the giant hole was probably where the foundation of a building once stood, now filled with several neat layers of wood (some looks like firewood, others cleaned branches) and what looks like any flammable material they could find in twenty-four hours. Giant, battery-powered lights are set up in all four corners, and people on the edge are passing down more wood to those inside.
There's already a good-size crowd gathering, and Dean's grateful for the darkness; those who look back can't see who they are (for those playing the home game, five of them are the people who are responsible for the bodies being dead, while three for those bodies being brought back to burn tonight).  As they come to a stop near the southeast side, Dean sees Jeremy and Joelle make a beeline for a woman near the back that in the dim light it takes a moment for Dean to recognize as Maimouna, Joelle's mom, who holds out her arms for Joelle, and he wonders who she knew who's being burned tonight. He should have asked Jeremy; why didn't he do that?
"Is there going to be--you know...talking." He winces; what the hell is wrong with him?
"There was a multi-denominational service earlier in the remains of the church on Seventh," Cas murmurs in his ear.  "It was the only place that had space enough for everyone in the current crowded conditions and also sufficient walls to keep out most of the wind, but for obvious reasons, each religious leader kept it short, with smaller gatherings planned for tonight for those of differing faiths."
Dean nods, trying to think of something to say, and what comes out is, "Then why the multi first?"
"Alison told me that when they first settled, there were roughly eight religions among less than two hundred people," Cas says.  "And six different Christian sects.  It was a way to assure that everyone was able to take consolation with their community and friends as well as still practice their faith.  All the families of the victims gave permission to burn them here; even if they could take them home immediately, transportation of an infected body isn't something any of them would risk."
As more people arrive, Dean tries and fails not to guess who were the family and friends and who were acquaintances, fighting the urge to duck his head when anyone comes too close.  From the corner of his eye, he catches a couple heading in their direction and glancing back, recognizes Karl, shoulder-length dreadlocks emerging from under a soft brown knit hat, though the guy with him Dean only knows he's seen around town.
They stop near Alicia, and Karl immediately steps forward and hugs her; even without much light, he can see her surprise, hands flailing a little before tentatively wrapping around his waist and head dropping to rest against his shoulder. Behind her, Matt and Jody watch curiously, not surprised, and Dean realizes after a moment that he's looking for Andy behind them and jerks his gaze away.
"They apparently became friends when she worked in Ichabod's infirmary after the attack," Cas says softly, having followed Dean's gaze.  "He and his partner Pedro were her hosts."
Dean glances back again in time to see Karl transfer Alicia to Pedro.  "She worked isolation."
"Vera thinks she was the one who saw to the children." Dean stiffens, looking at Cas; even reminding himself what she did doesn't do anything for the sheer horror.  "It's very rare they lose children to Croat, and never so many.  She said there might not have been anyone who had sufficient objectivity."
Dean flashes on Del and the dead bodies at the stairs, the injured kids that Callie and Emmy took with them into the locked room at the daycare, the ones who were found later, still alive when in a fair world they shouldn't have been. Then stops, doing the math and coming up with fresh horror.  "It was over eight hours before Alicia got to Ichabod."
"Dolores has a very strict policy about discussing isolation," Cas murmurs. "I doubt anyone other than a very few who needed to know--including the parents--are aware that--"
"Those kids were already Croat?" Dean demands.  "She went in there to shoot up Croat kids...." Bad enough to see the dead bodies, horrible to imagine doing that to any kids, but that....  "You're telling me she volunteered?"
"Apparently, that's exactly what she did," Cas answers, eyes fixed on some point in the distance. "If Kyle--somehow--discovered what she was doing and took advantage of her distress...."
"She might have told him," Dean starts, then shakes his head when Cas looks at him in patent disbelief.  "Yeah, he must have followed her or saw something and guessed; son of a bitch."
"I'm aware," Cas says in voice so rigidly controlled that Dean can almost hear the smiting in it, "that it is not within our responsibilities to in any way regulate or interfere--or even show interest in--the private lives of the militia.  However, Kyle's behavior has historically been questionable, and if he deliberately used his knowledge of Alicia's actions in the line of duty--knowledge acquired by underhanded means--to manipulate her when she was--not thinking clearly--I don't feel confidence in his integrity as a team leader."
"Or a person," Dean says quietly, wondering what they don't know about what might have happened with Jane, what she didn't report other than stalking.  And why would she, after all?  Once you're living in a camp where the team leaders were suspected murderers and given a pass, it's not exactly a jump to assume lesser crimes wouldn't even make the radar.
Looking back again, Dean sees Matt shaking Karl's hand and Jody talking quietly to Pedro and stops himself from looking for Andy again.  To his surprise, Naresh and Suma join them, and as Alicia turns toward them, he sees her face crumple as Suma reaches for her and makes himself look away.  Whatever she did, her grief over Andy isn't a lie, and he's not going to grudge her getting what comfort she can for that; he's not and never gonna be that much of a dick.
And nothing can make Kyle's actions okay. "When we get back to Chitaqua, find a way to talk to Jane," he says.  "And anyone else who has a history with him.  Stalking may not be the only thing Jane didn't want to report."
Cas nods, shoulder brushing his, and looking around, Dean realizes the crowed has tripled with more people still coming.  Glancing at Cas, he sees him gazing toward a woman carrying a kid, two older ones trailing behind her. "Who's that?"
"Callisto," he says.  "Her cousin was--among those outside the walls."
Callisto comes to a stop near the northeast edge, close enough to the light that Dean catches a glimpse of her rigid face and her hold on the kid in her arms.  "Cousin's kids?"
"At least two of them," Cas agrees.  "She told me they were very close."
So there was more than just talk about how to get bodies, okay.  Just then, Callisto glances over, expression changing when she sees Cas.  He may be imagining it (he's not), but he's pretty sure the way she stills is when she sees Dean.  
"Go," Dean says, nudging Cas's shoulder.  "It's what you do when--you know."
For a horrified moment, Cas looks like he may ask Dean to accompany him, but then he nods, starting toward Callisto.  When he reaches them, Cas reaches politely to shake her head, and as Callisto indicates each kid, Cas practices his 'being introduced to new people' by crouching to solemnly shake each small hand.
"Okay, that's adorable," Vera murmurs in his ear, and Dean realizes he's smiling as Cas listens to one of the kids--both boys, he thinks, but the big winter coats make that a guess--nodding along with the kind of strict attention kids love.  "He likes kids, huh?"
"Oh yeah." As Cas straightens to peer at the kid in Callisto's arms, murmuring something, the little head lifts and to Callisto's obvious surprise (though not Dean's), two tiny red-coated arms reach out.  Of course Cas likes kids; the only surprise was that Cas seemed surprised that day in the daycare when he read a story to the toddler room while the other kids from the church watched from outside the door. Of course he'd like them; they're the one group of people who haven't learned yet you're supposed to be afraid of the unknown on principle.  And they sure as hell like him.  
After a few seconds of what looks like a very earnest conversation with someone under three--Dean's had a lot of those, and even the ones that have words don't necessarily make sense--the kid drops her head on his shoulder and looks just about ready to go to sleep.  Callisto looks between the kid and Cas in surprise, and even from here, Dean can see Cas shrug.
"Angel thing?" Vera asks softly as Callisto and Cas talk while he gently strokes the red-coated back of the kid in his arms. 
"Cas thing," he replies absently, thinking of Cas's suggestion that they visit the daycare a couple of nights ago and wishing he hadn't been too distracted to wonder if maybe Cas wanted to go, too.  Hang out in the one place, with the one group of people, who aren't a crapshoot, who look at Cas and see him.  
After only a minute or two, Cas returns the obviously sleeping child to Callisto and saying something before starting back toward them.  Dean wonders at that until he notices people hovering a short distance from Callisto, their gazes fixed on Cas.  They're too far away and it's too dark to catch their expressions, but Cas can see in the dark and he doubts Cas missed them.
"Be right back," he tells Vera and starting to Cas, meeting him halfway and shrugging at his suspicious look.  "So what, you're baby Valium now?"
"Callisto mentioned that," Cas says, tucking his hands into his coat pockets; nothing about his expression says he noticed the watchers, but then again, this is Cas.  "They'll only stay until Reva's body is brought out and they begin the burn so her children can say goodbye. It shouldn't be long now."
When they get back, Dean casually puts himself between Cas and the gazes of those people and notices Mel and David subtly come up behind them while Amanda and Vera station themselves on Cas's other side.  Glancing over, Vera looks at him before her gaze flickers to those people and back; nodding, Dean relaxes.  So she saw it, too.
The sound of a couple of engines gets everyone's attention, and Dean turns to watch the crowd part as two vans come to a stop and cut the engines.  Craning his neck, he watches as several figures emerge from the cabs, dressed in protective gear over their coats and wearing thick rubber gloves as they circle around to open the back doors of each van.  
And one just wearing a coat and hat, standing back to direct those who lay out stretchers on the ground for those retrieving the bodies. Dean doesn't need any light to work out who that is.  He'd recognize the shape of Alison's shoulders anywhere, voice clear and carrying through the crowd even if the words are indistinct, Claudia beside her.  
Dean counts the bodies as they're carried one by one to those waiting in the hole, handing down each stretcher with practiced care and taking a previous stretcher back to do it all again.  Sixteen from the first van, sheets blindingly white in the harsh glare of the light.  Faintly, he thinks he can hear someone start to sob, but otherwise, it's almost painfully silent.
When they hit ten from the second van with no end in sight, Dean rouses himself enough to ask, "Who else--"
"Some from the YMCA and library incidents," Vera answers, voice unnaturally loud in the waiting silence.  "They couldn't get enough material for everyone tonight, so Croat got priority, and the first families they approached who said yes for the six others." Her eyes follow the bodies, and he guesses at least one was probably among her patients that night.
As the last body is placed on a stretcher, Alison goes to close the first van door herself while Claudia does the second, then both follow the same path the bodies took to the edge of the pit.  The gap in the crowd is enough for Dean to get a glimpse inside, but not enough; it's only when he can see the rows of bodies being covered by the volunteers in the pit that he realizes he's only a few feet from Alison now and can't remember actually moving.
Thirty-two bodies: twenty-six of them are his, died by his hand or on his order, and that distinction makes no difference at all. Unable to look away, he counts them again and again, almost resenting the anonymity the sheets provide despite the fact he can't remember a single one of their faces. He should, though; right now, he can't even remember if he even bothered to look them in the face before shooting them, a bullet to the head that ended twenty-six lives.
A few feet away from Alison, Dean sees Tony and Teresa standing with a group, among them some faces he recognizes as members of Ichabod's town council and three Alliance mayors. Two of them, Lourdes and John Henry, Noak and Andale respectively, join Alison and Claudia at the edge of the pit, and Dean wonders distantly who among those twenty-six were theirs.
Then Alison speaks, voice pitched to reach effortlessly across the crowd.  "Tonight, we acknowledge our loss.  Together, we are infinitely greater, and so follows that the absence of those who died makes us infinitely less than we were.  Where they were, we will never again see them: at our tables, in our homes, on our streets, during our celebrations and in our grief."  In the harsh light, Dean can see her gaze deliberately sweep over the crowd like she's speaking directly to each and every person here.  "That is as it should be; we will always remember them.  These are their names; please repeat them with me."
Deliberately, Alison says each name followed by dozens--maybe hundreds--of voices repeating it, and Dean's with them, learning the shape of them in his mouth and committing them to memory.  He should have known them already, should have gotten a list, found out about their families; for fuck's sake, he didn't even bother to look at their faces.
A movement to his left gets his attention, and he sees Alicia, flanked by Jody and Matt, watching with tears streaking her cheeks as she says each and every name, and wonders if she's thinking of the children from isolation and the burn for them she didn't attend; of Andy, still in Ichabod's mortuary and waiting for the day they can burn him in Chitaqua.
Andy, who died yesterday, and Dean still hasn't fucking bothered to ask Cas how old he was.
When the sound of the thirty-second name has faded into silence, Alison signals those in the pit, and the chemical smell of propane among the various accelerants drifts toward them in the cold air, overpowering the aromatic oils.  Breathing through his mouth is a mistake; now he can taste it, too.
The volunteers climb out, and it takes a moment for Dean to notice that Tony's on the far side of the hole, holding something and looking at Alison. When she nods, he looks down at what Dean thinks is some kind of remote, and then the unmistakable sound of crackling is followed by a sudden leap of flames across the bodies.
"Dean?" Cas says when the crowd slowly begins to disperse.  "Are you ready--"
"No."  Making an effort, he looks at Cas. "Go back without me, okay?  I need to...." It's hard to think when thirty-two names are scrolling endlessly through his head, but he's got to try. "An hour, okay?  Meet you in our room."
Cas hesitates, searching his face.  "You shouldn't be alone."
Oh, he won't be alone: he's got thirty-two burning bodies to keep him company.  "Please, Cas." He hopes Cas hears that he won't ask again; it'll be an order.
Finally, Cas nods.  "An hour, and then I come and find you."
Dean nods, watching Cas turn, signaling Vera and the rest to follow with the casual, unthinking certainty of being obeyed, and waits until they're swallowed by the darkness to turn back around. Watching the flames, he repeats the thirty-two names over and over, aware of nothing of the fast burn of the fire and the smell and taste flowers and wood and burning flesh.
@@@@@@
--Day 156, continued--

Castiel counts the minutes as he first fulfills his duties as Chitaqua's commander: verifying the patrol schedule and reports before appointing Mel duty officer until midnight followed by Christina until dawn, and assuring Carol is safely returned to the infirmary and reassuring her that if Dolores permits it, she's welcome to return.
That leaves him twenty-seven minutes, and belatedly remembering the vaguely dazed look of his subordinates, it occurs to him that perhaps he could have taken a little more time.
Going to the mess, he starts to ask if there's anything remaining from the dinner and stops short at the sight of Brenda frozen by the oven, mitts on both hands.
"Brenda?" he asks, reaching to touch her and only then registering the unnatural silence and the fact he can't smell whatever's cooking.
Drawing back, he crosses the mess and enters the lobby, throat tight when he sees the frozen tableau of Evelyn at the desk, Jeremy holding his coat and leaning over the log book; the Situation Room is empty, but a quick check of the second floor reveals Mel caught leaning against the wall outside her team's door, David cupping her face with a tender expression meant for no one eyes but hers.
Going to his and Dean's room, he calmly retrieves Ruby's knife and another of cold iron, concealing Ruby's in his boot and the strapping the other against his inner arm just above his wrist.  Searches through his kit, he removes powdered silver and powdered cold iron, and on further consideration, takes wood- and silver-tipped bullets (why not?).  He also quickly sets the baskets of clean laundry by the bathroom door and out of the way; there's no reason not to be tidy when possible (and reminds himself to thank Rosario and Frederick for their good work). 
When he emerges onto the balcony, the late evening makes it impossible to be sure, but focusing on the fire, two minutes observation shows no discernible change in the shape; that's what he thought, but it's pleasant to have confirmation.
"I'm going to need more than this," he tells the empty air on his way down the back stairs, checking his sidearm.  "As portents go, it's substandard; I could do better with a broom and a questionably clean sheet."
He's just reached the lobby when he hears a voice, so unexpected he just manages to conceal the fact he almost drew.  "Cas?"  He looks up at Nate leaning over the railing of the floor above him.  "Cas, I can't get Mira and James up, and Mel and David are--"
"Yes, I noticed." He looks around the lobby suspiciously.  "Not better," he murmurs to whoever is listening before telling Nate, "You can come down--"
Nate's halfway down the spiral staircase before he finishes the sentence, emerging almost at a run and crossing the silent lobby uneasily. "So Dean was right about the building." 
"It's not the building," he says, then revises that for honesty.  "At least, not now.  This is simply time in suspension, that's all."
Nate gazes at him incredulously. "Oh, that's all?  Time's suspended?"
"It's nothing to worry about," Castiel tells him encouragingly, wondering why Nate seems so disconcerted; he doesn't think anyone who lived happily in Winchester House has any grounds to panic whatsoever.  "The only question is why you're not affected. And me, I suppose."
"That's the only question?" Nate bursts out, a baffling edge of hysteria in his voice.  "How about--I don't even know," he finishes helplessly, looking around them.  "How about 'why'?"
"That would be useful," he agrees, tilting his head toward the door. "And the extent of the area this is affecting as well.  Come along."
"What?" Nate exclaims, but when Castiel emerges onto the street, Nate is almost plastered against his back.  
As they both look around, Castiel smiles at the sight of snow-flurries captured mid-motion; it's quite beautiful.  Nate approaches the nearest one with an odd lack of appreciation for its pure aesthetics, staring at it in horrified fascination.  Raising a hand, he reaches into the flurry and jerks his hand back, looking stunned as he stares at his hand, as if he expected it to change into something else. "It feels like...like snow."
He's become spoiled by Dean's quick mind and easy sangfroid no matter the situation; either that, or humans are becoming stupider.  "That is because it is snow," he answers as patiently as he can.  "In case this is your next question, you are indeed still breathing 'air'."  He cheers himself by reminding himself that this is the man who didn't notice the Apocalypse began when he was living in Winchester House.  And needed it to read his mind because he was so prone to almost dying walking out random windows.
"God, this is weird," Nate mutters as Castiel scans the empty street.  Not many people are out this late, of course.  "So is this--is this happening everywhere or just here?"
That is a very good question.  "There's no practical way to be certain," he admits, thinking of time bubbles and rivers and the inadvisability of using his ability to see all things at the moment.  Looking up, he studies the sky, tracking the streaks of frozen color that are the intersection between the storm and the protective bubble over Ichabod keeping it at bay. "Knowing the reason it exists would possibly also tell us its extent.  But it's definitely not confined to Ichabod proper."
Following his gaze, Nate nods uncertainly.  "I'll take your word for it.  So why would someone stop time?"
"Slow time, rather," he corrects Nate after staring at the snow flurry that Nate touched; the area of the flurry that Nate's hand displaced is incrementally smaller, though he'd need several hours--relatively speaking--of observation to work out the exact differential other than 'rather high'.  "So the question is, why would anyone want to slow time here and now...." 
He meets Nate startled gaze, who stares back at him, eyes widening in realization.  "We should--"
"--go to the infirmary," he agrees, starting for the street exit.  "Yes, now."
"What the hell," Dean mutters, coming up to an empty Second Street at a dead run, panting and making a note a lot of running around Chitaqua is in his future; this is bullshit.  Jogging down the street, he ignores the feel of not-moving snow flurries hitting him in the face even if it's spooky as shit; he doesn't have time for spooky right now, thanks.
Opening the door to Headquarters, he shouts, "Cas!" before he realizes he's in the white room.  This goddamn building: he doesn't have time for spooky goddamn buildings, either.
Stopping short, he realizes something else; it's not just white now, but white, painful as snowglare.  He has to squint, eyes burning, and gasps from the shock of ice-hot pain from his hand, muscles curling on themselves so tightly the bones seem to be trying to bend with them.  "What the fuck--"
"Sorry," a familiar voice says, and through his lids, the endless white glare starts to fade.  Squinting, he waits for it to go down the rest of the way before opening his eyes, blinking away the remaining glare, and after a moment makes out the shape of his usual companion a few feet away.
Then blinks, startled: worn jeans and a leather jacket over a faded flannel and thermal, brown hair in a sensible braid, and wearing at least two guns and a knife in her left boot. She's also in the process of sheathing a sword, silver-white that vanishes into a plain leather sheathe worked in darker symbols he can't quite focus on enough to read; that's what was causing the 'way too white' issue, okay.  For some reason, the pain fades as well, settling into a sullen throb in his palm as he tries and fails to flex his hand; he's pretty sure they're past the 'hot water will help' now.  
"I panicked," she says apologetically. "I thought you were...them."
Dean checks the walls--no pictures--but he already figured this was a non-standard...whatever they do here.  "Them?"
"Reason I'm here," she answers distractedly, looking around suspiciously, like she expects them--whoever they are--to appear any minute.  "Well, mostly."
Right, one of these conversations.  "What's going on?"
She makes a face.  "I was hoping you'd tell me."
He's not sure if that's scary or kind of sad.  "No idea. I was--"
"Torturing yourself at the burning," she finishes carelessly, raising an eyebrow at his expression.  "What?  Dean Winchester, infer self-torment.  A gimme, as it were."
He licks his lips, not sure what to say to that.  Time for a change of subject.  "Nice outfit?"  Oh God, what?
She brightens, looking down at herself in satisfaction.  "Trying to fit in; this is how your hunters dress.  Even the women."  She turns--for his benefit, he assumes--and looks at him hopefully.  "When in Rome and everything...."
Despite himself, he grins, nodding.  "Yeah, that'd be it.  You look great." Except for the sword: as yet, none of his hunters carry one of those standard.  "So where'd you get the sword?"
"This?" She looks down, like some other sword may have showed up, wrapping her hand around the plain, leather-wrapped hilt.  "Same place you got your knife: myself."
He tries to flex his empty hand, feeling a hilt pressing against his palm for a burning moment. 
"It's not done yet," she continues, face puckering.  "It's missing something, but I don't know what."
Behind her, he sees a faint, misty image form; it's the river he saw before.  It's no longer bathed in golden light, though; grey, churning water rushes beneath a thinning grey-white mist, frantic activity around the nearly-complete barge that's almost the size of a cruise ship now, and the shore now boasts dozens of lines of kilted soldiers in silver steel, more still forming behind them as he watches.  
"Almost ready?" he asks her as a man and two women wade ankle deep into the water, another man behind them, all wearing breastplates of silver ice and the women the crimson of a Roman general, eyes on the opposite shore in the far distance, a bare suggestion of a bank concealed swirling grey-white.  Claws of hardened carbon, empty-black and sharper than anything corporeal, abruptly emerge, miles long and swiping at those waiting.  
Two swords flash out: one of the women jumps to land on the pitted surface of one claw and stabs downward with a flash of blue-white light, nailing it into the mud; the other woman cuts through it just behind her heels with a second flash with a sound like a metal-on-metal scream.  With a bone-jarring shriek, the claws retract, vanishing into the mist, and the first woman jumps down with a splash and jerks her sword up, holding it aloft with six feet of black claw impaled on the blade.
"I like them," he tells his companion. "Yours?"
"Penthesilea and Hippolyta, two of my generals," his companion says in satisfaction as the second woman wraps an arm around the hips of the first, lifting her effortlessly before the eyes of the lines of soldiers.  Even from here, he can see their fierce smiles, hear their laughter float over the soldiers lining the river's bank, the responding shouts of affirmation and triumph.  Her smile widens as she draws the attention of the two men before turning back to him.  "You were right," she says abruptly. "About asking for help."
He nods: he is, sometimes.
"I just don't know what I need yet."  She blows out a breath, lips curling in a silent snarl.  "How do you kill something that's never been alive? Got anything? I'm open to ideas, even really bad ones."
Oh, them.  "Yeah, we're working on that."
"Keep me informed, would you?"  She sees his raised eyebrow and sighs.  "I know, but this one we can't bend; trust me, I would.  You can help me, but I can't help you.  At least, not like this."
He cocks his head; that's not the answer he expected (if he's honest, he didn't expect an answer at all, and for that matter, before he even asked a question).  "Why?"
"You told me why."
"When did I...." It's not better with a script, no matter who writes it.  "Huh."  So he can help, awesome.  How, though....  "Might help if you told me what you're doing."  Though he has a pretty good guess; the barge-cruise ship is up in the air, but that's an army if he ever saw one, and he could be wrong, but what they're gonna fight is on the other side.  And it has really big claws.
He only debates for a moment; if he can help, he should.  That's not even a question.  "One of their corporeal forms is canine," he says, and her eyes widen.  "Hellhounds raped Cynothoglys to breed them, but no idea how many.  Cas thinks they may be patrolling all the lands and paths of the dead, including the gates of Heaven, but there's no way to tell. That's all we know right now."
She covers her mouth, eyes closing for a moment before she composes herself, a soldier reforming before his eyes.  "Mortal eyes could see them without damage?"
"Nate could," he says, filing away the question in the vague hope he'll remember that if nothing else and hey, that explains something else.  "You thought I was them when I came in?  In this building?"  She nods. "Nate's here.  He's--contaminated by their cousin or something.  In a good way, I mean."
Her expression tells him she's going with it, which is good; that sword looks really sharp.  "I wonder why I didn't sense him before?"
If she doesn't know, he can't even guess.  "Magic? Or maybe the time bubble."
"Time bubble?" she asks in surprise, and oh, he's owed this one.
"You know, the thing outside; time bubble around Ichabod."  Or however far it goes.  She blinks at him slowly and he can't resist. "Time's like a river," he starts, adopting Cas's exact tone when dumbing down Creation for human (his) benefit.  "You can dam it--bad idea, like fireworks--or make a bubble around an area and slow time down inside it.  Hidden in plain sight, like, you know, the slow part of a river."  He shrugs casually. "Happens all the time, like a party trick.  You never ran into one?"
Her eyes narrow.  "Smug isn't a good look on anyone."
He grins back.  "It feels good, though."
Looking annoyed--that reminds him of someone, though he can't quite think of who--she paces a few feet before stopping short, shaking her head.  "This is impossible."
"Nothing's impossible," he corrects her. "Just really, really improbable.  Trust me, I know."
She rolls her eyes.  "I forgot, I'm talking to the impossible himself. You're a standard all your own, Dean Winchester."
Her hand drifts to the hilt of her sword.  Frowning, she looks down at it again, fingers flexing around the leather uncertainly.
"What did you put in it?" he asks, nodding at it. 
"My determination, to do what I must," she recites, straightening.  "My strength, given freely and without reserve. My courage, to stand when others flee.  My endurance, in the face of suffering and deprivation.  My resignation, should the battle go against us--"
"How does defeat feel?" he cuts her off, and she stiffens.  "Christ, you lost already and you haven't even stepped on the field."
"What?"
"You're doing it wrong."  Crossing to her, he covers her hand, pulling the sword out a half inch and squinting against the glare, ignoring the scream of pain shuddering along his nerves.  "That's a checklist.  Throw in 'shoots well' and 'can drive a car'--or ride a horse, I guess--and you got a list of decent skillsets.  You need more than that."
"What's missing?" 
"Where's your hope?"  Without thinking, he folds back the loose sleeves of the flannel and shoves up the thermal, revealing the network of open red wounds stretching up her forearm, still bleeding; Licinia wasn't the only one who didn't fuck around getting shit done.  He glances up at her, but she's staring at them as well, eyes blank; in the too-bright light, he traces the suggestion of purple around one eye, the angry swell of her lower lip, and fights down the shock of helpless rage.  He bites back hot words; she doesn't need to deal with his shit, and the person that deserves it isn't here anyway.  "This isn't all you are.  Where's the rest?"
"Of me?"  She touches the scars with shaking fingers.  "I lost that a long time ago."
"Time to get it back."  Fresh blood wells up, and Dean frowns, using the edge of his own flannel to clean it away.  "This isn't you; that was just the end. It's past, no help for it, but you gotta stop wearing it as your skin; it's not you."  When he wipes away the blood again,  they aren't any more healed: still open, still waiting to bleed again.  They'll bleed forever if you let them and sometimes even if you don't.  "You aren't weak."
"You don't know--" 
"I don't need to," he interrupts, impatiently wiping away the blood again; this time, it sticks.  Still open, though, and it's not enough, but it'll have to be, at least for now.  Gently, he tugs her sleeves back down, settling the flannel over her forearm. "Something's missing, it's always gonna be missing, because it's not everything; you gotta take it all back.  Everything you are, you were , and will ever be; that's what's gotta be in there, or it won't work."
Letting her go, he steps back, fighting the urge to flex his hand around a knife that isn't there and doesn't shouldn't can't exist.  If it did, he'd want to use it, and the guy who did that to her isn't here anyway.
"So," he says, changing the subject.  "No idea what's going on?"
She starts to shake her head, then hesitates.
"Specifically, no," she answers, frowning as she looks around at the unchanged walls. "But I think--could be wrong--that someone is trying to perform a miracle."
The infirmary is equally unsettling, but Castiel concentrates on their destination, pulling Nate behind him on the stairs when he seems inclined to linger to look around in shocked horror.  
"Later," he says impatiently as they reach the second floor and start toward the third.  "I promise, you can spend time being unsettled by the memories just as easily.  Though considering your history, it's a little hypocritical, don't you think?"
"What?" As they reach the third floor, they both hear Vera's voice, professionally calm to anyone else, but Cas recognizes the edge in it and speeds up.  "Hey, so Vera--"
"To deliver a baby, a medical professional is generally recommended, if available," he says, taking the remaining stairs two at a time and then stops just short of the hall that leads to the newly created pregnancy wing.  "Before we arrive--Nate, what did you do to Sudha's room?"
Nate looks at him blankly.  "Patched the walls, gave it a coat of primer and paint--"
"I mean," he tries again.  "Did you do--anything not strictly within the laws of physics?"
Nate's expression goes from 'blank' to 'incredulous'.  "How would I--"
"The same way you repair massive dimensional rifts," he interrupts impatiently. "With drywall and paint. It's what you do.  Very well, I should say: well done."
Nate looks down the hall, then at him.  "Okay, one--thanks?  And two...." He looks away, but Castiel sees him flush.  "I didn't do anything but what I said, but I hoped--if you were right about what I was doing with House--maybe it would protect them or something, I don't know.  When Dolores said there were a few women who might deliver soon, I thought--" He shrugs, but for some reason, the flush deepens.  "They've been through a lot getting here, and I wanted them to at least have nice rooms, somewhere quiet."  Nate looks defensive.  "What? I was here, so why not?"
"Sudha liked it very much," he answers, starting down the hall.  "You did very well."
Outside Sudha's door are several very unfrozen women--Deepika, Cathy, and Suma sitting beside a very worried-looking Mercedes--all of whom look at him and Nate in surprise.  
"Good evening," he says, wondering if they're aware of anything outside this area.  From their expressions--worried but not terrified, and the lack of catatonia is also reassuring--he assumes not, and blesses whoever may be listening for small favors.  "How is Sudha?"
"Calm," Suma says, one arm around Mercedes' shoulders.  "Vera was hoping you'd be here soon."
Castiel tries to remember if he saw anyone mid-run on his way here and dismisses it. "Wait here," he tells Nate, who nods in relief.  "Let me see if she needs my assistance."  His vessels' memories of childbirth are not entirely pleasant except in outcome.
When he enters the room, he has a moment to take in the scene; Sudha calmly walking the length of the room on Njoya's arm, her abdomen seemingly even larger and wires trailing from under her gown to a machine by the bed; Rabin tracking her from a few feet away with a worried but not alarmed expression; Neeraja speaking quietly to Rabin, but also unalarmed; Alison in one of the chairs, face pale and very composed, but far too tense and very successfully hiding it; and Vera reading over a chart with a small smile that doesn't reach her eyes.
When she looks up, however, her expression is one of barely-hidden relief.  "Cas," she says, lowering her chart.  "Sudha, be just a sec; I'm going to update him.  Keep walking: you're doing great.  Njoya, just stick 'em back on if the monitors fall off."
Obediently, Castiel follows Vera down the hall and out of earshot of those waiting outside the room.  "Her water broke, labor started," she says. "And no change in why she can't deliver: Cas, help me out here.  What do I do?"
His vessels' birth experiences did not cover this.  "Remain calm and follow her lead."
"What--"
"She'll be fine," he says.  "Just do your best as if this was a normal labor."
She swallows hard, hands clenched into fists at her sides.  "I'm going to kill her."
"You aren't--"
"Cas, I don't know--the C-section was luck, book outlined what to do, a goddamn cat could have done it, but this...Cas, I can't do this, I'm going to kill her, I'm going to miss something obvious, come on!  I'm gonna kill her and her baby because I don't know shit about what I'm doing!"
He hesitates, looking at her upturned face and the obvious terror.  "You know more than anyone else here," he says.  "Dolores wouldn't have left you in charge of Sudha if she had any doubt."
Before Vera can answer, Njoya comes to the door of Sudha's room and says, "Vera?  She says the contractions are getting stronger.  I'm timing at under two minutes."
"Be right there," she says, and he watches the effort it takes her to reassemble her professional demeanor and finds himself thinking about Carol and her brutal tongue, how she spoke of Alicia, and wonders what--if anything--she might have said to Vera when she was told about her leg.
"Vera," he starts, filing that away for later.  "I doubted many things, but not you.  I never would have trusted you with Dean otherwise."
"I didn't--"
"Try again," he tells her, reminding her of that terrible night in the cabin when Dean's heart stopped for the last time.  "That's what I told you.  I knew you could do it; all you needed was time."
She nods jerkily, unconvinced.  "Cas--"
"You'll save her," he says softly. "Just like you saved Dean.  And me."
"Right," she says, squaring her shoulders and turning toward the door like a woman facing her own execution.  "Let's go."
"A miracle?"  Wow, they could use a couple of those about now.  "Any chance you can....no, of course not," he adds in disgust when she shakes her head. "That would be easy."
"Not omnipotent," she reminds him.  "And really, don't want to be, having thought about it.  Imagine knowing everything."
"I have," he admits, thinking of Cas.  "An expert told me it's pretty goddamn boring."  Despite everything, he finds himself looking back at the door.  It's like.... "So why would someone stop time?"
"Slowed down," she corrects him mockingly.  "Or so you seemed to imply."
"Yeah, the better to hide something."  A miracle, why would you slow down time?  To do something and hide it, sure, that helps, but what?  What would make time a problem, enough you need to slow it down?  To keep something from happening, okay, or put it off until....  "A miracle," he says slowly. "Is that kind of like a cosmic event?"
"Can be," she agrees.  "Why?"
"That door take me back outside?" he asks, just to check.  "It will, right?"
"It should," she says, touching her sword again.  "Are you going to keep up twenty questions or tell me--"
"Later," he says, turning back to the door and ignoring her scowl.  "Maybe."
"What--"
"Now you know how it feels.  I gotta get to the infirmary," he says, opening the door to the night outside and the still-frozen but much less spooky flurries of snow.  "Something impossible's about to happen."
Sitting at the foot of the low bed, Rabin behind her and giving her his support, Sudha practices excellent breathing technique; of everyone in the room, she's genuinely the most calm, one hand resting on Rabin's forearm, the other closed over the edge of the mattress each time there's a contraction.  Neeraja and Njoya, sitting on chairs on either side of her, both mirror her breathing, while Alison reads Sudha's favorite Indian folk tales in unsettlingly fluent, very idiosyncratic Hindi.
(Sudha's warning look tells him not to mention it.  Deepika explains that Sudha picked that collection for Alison to read with this in mind.)
Returning from scrubbing down in the nearby bathroom, Vera snaps on clean gloves and smiles at Sudha before kneeling in front of the thick towel protecting the padding on the floor between Sudha's spread legs.
"So, how're we doing?" she asks, nodding at Njoya to lift back Sudha's hospital gown after a check with Sudha results in a quick nod.  "Just checking dilation, and I promise, my hands are warm this time."
Sudha grins between regular breaths, and Castiel averts his gaze back to the tray, stacked with rolls of clean gauze, thick gauze pads, and meticulously cleaned instruments of both obvious and obscure functionality and uniformly frightening when he considers where they might be going.  Sudha gasps softly just as Alison's voice cuts off, and Castiel just stops himself from accidentally knocking over the tray; a glimpse of Vera's back shows she's not pleased with whatever she discovers.
"One one thousand, two one thousand, three one thousand," Njoya recites as she and Neeraja extend their arms for Sudha to hold when she shifts off the bed to crouch on the floor, eyes turned inward as her abdomen seems to visibly ripple.  "Four one thousand, five one thousand...."
They get to sixty-three when Sudha relaxes and pushes herself back up on the mattress with a groan, tipping her head back against Rabin's shoulder as he wipes her forehead, murmuring encouragement in her ear.
"Two minutes forty-five apart, and about sixty seconds duration," Njoya tells Vera, and Castiel picks up the clipboard and pen, pleased to have something to do and not look at the dark blood on the towel.  "Vera?"
"Good so far," Vera says, meeting Sudha's eyes and smiling.  "It'll be soon now; just tell me when you feel like pushing."
"You'll know," Njoya says firmly.  "I did this three times and have another one coming up in six months; trust me, this part pretty much just happens."
Sudha nods, closing her eyes, and Castiel glances over to see Alison relax, rubbing her temples impatiently and looking noticeably paler, and wonders when was the last time she slept a full night.  Even with her shields, she's reacting to Sudha's pain, doubtless hoping to find some way to alleviate it with the strength of her mind alone.  If she could take it herself, she doubtless would; instead, she reads the same fairy tales to Sudha that Sudha's grandmother did in her grandmother's voice.
Still smiling, Vera folds away the ruined towel and holds out a hand toward Castiel until he realizes she wants him to get another.  Taking one from the stack, he approaches, stopping exactly the length of his reach and handing it to Vera, aware of Sudha, Neeraja, and Njoya all smiling at him indulgently for reasons unclear.
"Thanks," Vera says, laying it out before getting to her feet and stripping off her gloves.  "Mind if I update the peanut gallery real fast?"
"Please," Sudha answers as Alison returns to the story, voice firm and clear, and Vera discards the gloves and a glance at Castiel indicates he should follow.  Politely, he waits as Vera tells everyone Sudha is progressing very well in a voice so convincing that no one seems to doubt--except Nate, who watches her face and swallows hard.
"Hey." Castiel jerks his gaze down the hall to see Dean jogging toward them, red-faced and looking annoyed as he unbuttons his coat.  "Am I too late?"
Castiel looks at Nate briefly before shaking his head. "Not at all."
"Dean," Vera says blankly.  "What are you doing here?"
"Baby," Dean says, like it should be obvious.  "Think she'd be okay with me saying hi real fast?"
Vera opens her mouth, then stops, and Dean checks those waiting before saying, "Also, want to ask you something--got a second?"
"Yeah," she says, and Castiel follows her and Dean down the hall, out of earshot of those waiting. "Seriously, Dean--"
"How's she doing?"
Vera sucks in a breath.  "No change," she answers.  "Bleeding's heavier than what I read--read, okay?  This is all theory to me--but I think it's in range.  Whatever is going on, it's not happening--"
"Vera!" Vera turns at the frantic edge in Njoya's voice, jogging back down the hall and going in the door.  Dean's hand on his arm stops him from following.
"That the reason for someone hitting pause on the world?"
"Slow motion," he says, and Dean's mouth quirks.  "You asked if our god would know when the Misborn would be able to sense them; now we know.  Within five minutes or less of when this started in unaltered linear time."
"Cutting it close, but can't argue with the results." Dean's hand tightens on his arm as his eyes travel down to see Nate.  "And Nate's....here."
"He did the repairs on the rooms," Castiel says, and Dean's eyebrows jump.
"Did you ask?"
"He hoped it would help but wasn't sure if he did anything--unusual," Castiel replies. "And--he wanted the pregnant women to have nice rooms."
They both watch Nate murmur something to Cathy, red-eyed and curled up in her chair, before getting to his feet and drifting toward the door.  "Good guy," Dean says, and Castiel reads the praise in understatement.  
Nate stiffens at whatever he sees, taking a step back. "Cas, Vera needs you," he says at the same time Deepika and Suma push by him and go inside.  
Exchanging a look with Dean, Castiel returns and swallows hard; the floor is splattered with blood, and Deepika, Suma, and Alison--all gloved--are on their knees frantically cleaning it up, jeans and woolen skirts stained dark.  To his relief, Sudha, though very pale, is perfectly composed, breathing calmly, her only concession to the floor is one foot in Neeraja's lap and the other braced on the edge of the bloody mattress. She seems comfortable, however, which Castiel's blank mind assures him is to be encouraged when women are in labor.
"I apologize for the mess," Sudha starts, looking down and meeting Vera's eyes with a mischievous smile.  "That was unexpected."
Vera grins back up at her; her surgical gown is splattered with blood.  "This is where I double charge for the dry-cleaning." She calmly does something beneath the gown while Rabin and Sudha hold up the edge of her bloody skirt, and Sudha's face twists in obvious pain. "We'll get you cleaned up and towels changed in a minute, okay?"
Castiel doesn't back away, though he wants to; instead, he looks around the room, sees the biohazard bag, and quickly acquires it, picking up the bloodstained cloths and towels as they're discarded, then turning his head to see Nate and Cathy staring inside.  Mercedes, he guesses, has retreated to the bathroom for reasons he is certain he doesn't want to think about at this moment.
"Come here," he says firmly and watches in satisfaction as both jump, coming in like they're unable to stop themselves.  "Put on some gloves and take this bag," he tells Nate.  "Bring them clean towels and collect those that are stained.  Cathy, acquire clean linens and surgical gowns for everyone from...."  He can't send her downstairs.  He doesn't even know why she was excluded; if it was herself for Sudha's benefit or this area in general.
"Right, two doors down, supply closet," Nate tells him, pulling on the gloves and taking the bag before going to Alison.  Looking relieved, Cathy flees to find supplies.
Vera takes a pillow from Rabin and drop it on the recently cleaned floor, taking several surgical pads from Nate to cover it and also for her own knees.  Half-turning, Castiel sees Dean sitting with Mercedes, trying to be reassuring while darting vaguely horrified glances toward the room; he supposes it's one thing to see blood in the field (or while tending to corpses) but quite another to see it in this context.
Cathy returns with what looks like everything surgical or sheet related in the closet, setting it safely away from the remaining blood, and Vera looks at Sudha.  
"Up to you," she says, cocking her head.  "I just want you out of that gown.  It's warm enough that if you want to strip down, go for it.  I'll do it, too: solidarity and everything."
Pausing, Castiel takes note of the temperature and realizes that it is warm enough; despite the freezing cold outside--and the infirmary's not entirely perfect heating system--the room is far warmer than anywhere else he's been in town.
Sudha thinks, glancing up at Rabin, whose expression seems to imply he doesn't care provided Sudha is comfortable.  "For now I would prefer something to wear," she decides.
"Thank God," Alison says in relief, sitting back on her heels.  "If you did, I'd have to do it for support, and seriously, not everyone looks as good as you do au naturale."  Laughing quietly, Neeraja agrees.
"All right," Vera says, "everyone not Sudha's support, out for a few minutes.  Cas, you're staying to hand me things."
"Njoya, Alison," Sudha says as Alison starts to get to her feet.  "Stay, please."
"Wouldn't leave if you paid me," she assures her, and he watches her focus on Sudha, eyes going distant, and can almost feel her fumbling to find the right way to take away her pain before grimacing.  "Any requests?"
They exchange a look before Sudha says, "New York, eight--nine years ago.  The train was late, and people suddenly started singing that song--"
"Bizarre Love Triangle," Alison says with a grin.
"Yes, while we all watched the rats."  Njoya gracefully moves for Alison, who sits on the chair and reaches for Sudha's hand.  Rabin tightens his hold on Sudha, resting his chin on her shoulder; Neeraja tilts her head, eyes half-closed; and Njoya rests a hand on Alison's shoulder and shuts her eyes; as he and the others watch, he feels Alison's mind expand, encompassing those by the bed and move outward to those waiting outside the door. 
An subterranean scene opens, dark and rather uninspiring, a few rats chasing each other over the sunken, empty tracks and exhausted people littering one side; the impression is it's very late and everyone is very, very tired, and he wonders why Sudha chose this.
Then from the group clustered nearest the tracks, he hears women's voices start to sing, off-key and wavering, interspersed with laughter, slowly getting louder; faintly he sees a second tiny group--Neeraja, Alison, Sudha, and Rabin, all exhausted, Alison looking somewhat homicidal--and they all turn in surprise, their tired faces brightening.  Sudha abruptly joins in; Neeraja and Alison begin to laugh as Rabin adds his voice to Sudha's and then they join in as well.
From the corner of his eye, he sees Cathy smiling, eyes distant, and outside the room, Deepika, Suma, and Mercedes are watching as well, worried expressions melting into pleasure as Alison infuses it with what they felt that night: tired, disappointed, feeling lost--and then unexpected joy found in an unlikely place: an a capella rendition of techno-pop to three very determined rats in the New York subway.
"Cas, get me that bowl," Vera says softly, pulling him out, and for a moment, he almost resents it before he remembers his duty.  Looking at Sudha, the contrast is striking.  He didn't realize--though Vera and the others must have--how tense she was.  He supposes Alison couldn't risk this before when Sudha's attention was needed for her body, but from the way the lines on her face ease, this is the only way she can take away Sudha's pain.
In the real world, Vera helps a compliant Sudha out of her gown and into a clean one, and Castiel hands her fresh gloves and then holds the bowl--the water is still hot, to his lack of surprise--as Vera quickly and professionally cleans away the worst of the blood.  Rabin surfaces enough to help Sudha to the chair while Castiel and Nate strip the soiled padding and sheets from the bed and remaking the bed with fresh layers of padding.  Rabin takes his place again, Sudha settling between his spreads legs and leaning back against him, strong arms wrapping around her just above the swell of her belly as he nuzzles her hair, murmuring encouragement and comfort.
Keeping his gaze firmly averted, he notes with a chill that the thick pile of padding below Sudha is already soaked with blood.  Intellectually, he's aware it's not as much as it looks like--and he can calculate from what he saw when he entered the room exactly how much she lost--but it seems like far more.
Vera sends Njoya, Neeraja, and Alison to get cleaned up as she reattaches the monitors, checking Sudha carefully and making light conversation until they return.  "Njoya," she says, "watch for me while I get cleaned up?  Yell if anything happens."
She nods, eyes on Sudha. "Got it."
At her glance, Castiel follows Vera to the small bathroom two doors away.  There, he helps her strip off her gown and blood-splattered t-shirt (Vera points to a bag that she sensibly packed, in preparation for this, he assumes) and gets her a clean one, and then helps her into a fresh gown, tucking her pinned hair beneath the bright blue cap.  Turning to the sink, she turns on the water and then braces her hands on the sides, head dropping.
"I think...." Her voice breaks.  "I think the placenta might be rupturing. Incomplete, if it is, but...."
He nods.  "How long--never mind.  The child?"
"Seems fine," she answers.  "Monitor isn't showing any problems. I was thinking an ultrasound, but I'm not sure I'd know what I was seeing looking right at it."  Taking a deep breath, she thoroughly cleans her hands and arms to the elbow, and Castiel picks up her gloves, holding them out for her; routine can be comfort, but it can also be a reminder.  She's a practitioner nurse with vast experience, but she is also his and Dean's doctor and their faith in her abilities has been proven.
"You can do this," he tells her firmly; neither alcohol nor drugs are a wise way to offer reassurance, so he must offer it with his voice alone and be believed.  
With a faint smile that doesn't reach the worried eyes, she lets him glove her.  "I can do this," she repeats, mouth trembling. "But I could really use some help here.  Any help."
He nods.  "That's why I'm here."
When they return, Dean is sitting outside the room alone, right hand fisted on his thigh.  Castiel stops while Vera goes back inside, crouching to look at him.  "The bubble didn't affect you."
"No."  Castiel sees him abruptly stuff his hand into his jacket pocket.  "So it's all of Kansas, you think?"
"If I were guessing--and I am--it reaches just short of the border, where the Misborn might be able to sense it," he agrees. "But that is a guess."
"Makes sense." Dean sighs.  "Need me to do anything?"
The slightly desperate edge in his voice tells Castiel that is less a question than a demand.  Looking inside, he assures Sudha is comfortable, and notices that Cathy and Nate are surreptitiously removing the blood-soaked pads that Neeraja immediately replaces.  His mind helpfully scrolls through the history of childbirth, the greatest dangers; cervical rupture, placental rupture, uterine rupture, all leading to hemorrhaging sometimes fast and sometimes slow but too often fatal.
Then Alison looks out into the hall and stabs them with a glare.  "Get some gloves, get a towel, and get in here," she snarls, and bemused, Castiel watches Dean jump to his feet and take two steps before stopping in sheer horror.  
"You could help with bagging the hazardous material," Castiel tells his rigid back before Dean can think of something to say that would not in any way be appropriate for the room of a woman in labor.  Gently, he pushes on his back to get him moving as Vera goes to the tray; he should be there to bring it to her, he remembers, and pushes Dean harder until they're both inside the door.
He stiffens, and Vera stops just short of the tray.
There's a moment of utter stillness, and he senses something surrounding them, waiting, held barely contained.  Castiel searches the room quickly: Nate and Cathy are occupied with their bags; Rabin, eyes closed, his forehead resting on Sudha's shoulder, is oblivious; to Sudha's left, Njoya and Neeraja are speaking quietly; Suma and Deepika are arranging a pile of clean sheets, towels, and padding while Mercedes opens a new box of gauze; all unaware.
Alison isn't; she's looking around the room warily; Dean is tense in front of him; Sudha, however, is smiling, looking relieved, and despite her sickly pallor, her face almost seems to glow.  
And Vera--
"I can do that," she says to someone, tilting her head back, and he sees the tear tracks on her face.  "Yeah, I understand."
"No," he says belatedly.  "No, you can't--"
"Gonna be fine, now shut up. My business, Cas," she says, not looking at him.  "Yes, do it.  Now."
There's no time to move and it's far too late in any case; the world dissolves around them, infinite space unfolding into reality like a vast stone dropped into the smallest of puddles, ripples trapped within the confines of this room.  The door shuts behind them, and a scorching wind blows through the room that softens into spring warmth, the scent of flowers and spice filling the air.  
The world trembles as a god--perhaps the greatest of them--manifests fully upon the earth, their godhead revealed; dimly, he wonders how any of them--even him--have survived it.
Vera turns to look at them, brown eyes vast, peppered with infinite stars, expressionless as she surveys them before dismissing them from her attention and crossing to a glowing Sudha.  One dark hand rests on her ashen cheek for a moment, and Sudha smiles up at her, love and joy written across her face.
"You never doubted," the goddess says softly.
"Of course not," Sudha answers, smile widening impossibly.  "I think--however--that we are ready now."
"Very soon, yes."  Crouching gracefully, she looks into Sudha's eyes.  "Rest for a moment, little one.  We shall not abandon you."
Sudha nods trustfully, closing her eyes and leaning back against Rabin.  Without turning around, the goddess raises a hand.  "Cassiel, you who are the balance and the karma, you will stand witness for us."
"I haven't been Cassiel in a very long time," he answers, eyes trained on Vera's too-fragile, mortal form that holds the infinite within.  "Why do you invoke us now?"
She twists around, and the expressionless face regards him thoughtfully, but for a moment, he sees a flicker of humor, What a very stupid question. In retrospect, he supposes that it was.
Inexplicably, Dean suddenly moves in front of him, left hand closing over his hip; it seems he was paying attention to procedure during Andy's wake.  "This is where you tell me who you are, and more importantly, where the fuck you've been."
Sudha winces, looking embarrassed. "Dean--"
"What he said," Alison interrupts, and as the goddess turns to look at her, Castiel shares a helpless look with Sudha.  Somewhere (where is she?), Teresa just realized her life partner is challenging a god but can't do anything since she's trapped in time.  It will not help her mood when she finally sees Alison again.
"Impressive," the goddess says colorlessly, and with a start of alarm, he wonders what Alison just tried to do.  "But pointless; you cannot harm us."
"You sure about that?" Alison answers pleasantly, ignoring Sudha's tight grip on her hand, and stiffens as the goddess lifts her chin.  No human can win a straight fight with a god: Tantalus is only one of the places those go who even try.
From here, he can see Alison begin to tremble, then her fingers close around the edge of her chair, knuckles going white.  Castiel's aware of a sense of growing pressure, filling the room to bursting as she surrounds Sudha's fragile mind with herself, protection and defense and utter determination coloring it in shades of red-green and hot gold.  To get through it, Alison will need to be torn apart.  He remembers the sweep of Alison's mind through the town the day the Croats attacked Ichabod for the children; then, panic and still uncertain skill left her groping for what to do, but raw power she doesn't lack, and she's never lacked will.  
Psyche counted a million pieces of grain with an army of ants at Aphrodite's jealous order; Orpheus played his lyre until his fingers bled until he could step over Cerberus's sleeping body into the Underworld and regain his wife; no one, even a god, can claim victory against the fullness of human will when it's set against them.  Alison may die for it, but she won't break.
Abruptly, the pressure ends, but Alison doesn't move, even to wipe away the trickle of blood from her nose.  Despite the expressionless stare, he thinks the goddess might be surprised.
"Do you wish us to save her?" the goddess asks, and it may not be a concession, but Castiel decides to take it as one anyway.  "We are at the end of our strength; we can destroy you or assure she and her child survive; you decide."
"I know the value of a promise made by a god," Alison answers, voice strained but no less determined. "It's worth exactly as much as who has the power to enforce it."
"Alison," Castiel says, relieved to still have a voice, even if the tight grip of Dean's hand makes it inadvisable to move.  "She asked for Cassiel to witness her; we are the enforcement of covenant."
"You aren't an angel anymore," she answers, eyes on the goddess.  "What the hell can you do?"
This is difficult to explain.  "Our--name--is enough; she invoked it. This is natural law; if she meant to break covenant, she wouldn't have spoken it at all."  If she meant to break it--if she even could--she certainly wouldn't have come all the way here to do it.
"A human reason, then," the goddess says, tilting her head curiously.  "When the world was young, before you were so much as a thought, we danced upon the earth and a mortal man saw us; he pleased us.  We laid with him by the Kali Ganga and allowed ourselves to be quickened with his seed."  Castiel raises an eyebrow in surprise and just bites back a comment; this would not be the time.  "When in the fullness of time, he married, his wife was barren, but their love was such that he would not set her aside. She came to us and offered herself on our altar, her life to give birth to our child."  She looks at Sudha, and even Castiel can feel the fierce, protective tenderness.  "Your many-times great grandmother, firstborn but not last; for the gift of bearing our child, her womb was made fertile and her labors eased.  She loved them all without reserve, child: her first daughter was ours, but that made her no less hers."
Sudha nods, eyes shimmering.
"That daughter grew strong of limb and great of beauty and wisdom; many contended for her hand, and by her parents' will and ours, the one who would have her was the one who pleased her most.  She bore many strong sons and daughters, but to honor us, one was brought to our temple and consecrated to us in thanks. So it has been since: the first daughter of the first daughter was given to us, their lives ours, given freely, to do with as we would.  Until now, we have not called upon you; we need you now."  She rests a hand on Sudha's abdomen.  "When Lucifer was uncaged, his first act was to eliminate all mortals who may hold a god without harm; your line he exterminated immediately, for our crimes against him were great, and your line offended him above all others.  He knew we would never bow for him, so would make us watch his slaughter before he took our life himself.  That is our burden, child, and not of your doing."
"I would ask--hope," she corrects herself, "to know--have we broken your will? We are far from home, and came here for earthly advancement; did we do wrong?  Are we what you--the children of your daughter, did we disappoint you?  Is that why--why I was barren?  Because my actions were ones that...that denied your will for me?"
The room changes, a sweep of scorching heat, but around Sudha, it remains a warm spring wind.  Cupping Sudha's cheek, she meets the wet brown eyes.
"With your own will, you grew to womanhood, sought education and enlightenment; with your wisdom, you chose the man among those your parents offered you not for lust or fleeting beauty, but his character and suitability as companion of your life, and from that grew love; due to your intelligence, you were offered opportunities to enrich your life and the children you hoped to bear, and you took them; you doubted, you questioned, and you came away with your faith stronger.  Your heart is open and warm, your generosity freely given, you offer your strength to others without reserve.  If we could have laid the path for you to follow, daughter, this is what it would have been. Few gods can boast such children as ours; we were envied."  She leans closer, forehead touching Sudha's.  "We have run for eons, and our time is almost done--"
"No!" Sudha says fiercely, pulling away from Rabin and throwing her arms around the goddess, and Castiel has the pleasure of seeing a goddess looked expressionlessly stunned.  "Stay, we will...." her voice breaks off thickly, tears running down her cheeks, and Castiel feels Dean's hand tighten on his hips.  "Lucifer will not win.  We just need time."
Slowly--as if she's not sure how to do it--she wraps her arms around Sudha's back, holding her as she sobs, and Castiel is startled by a tightness in his chest in response to Sudha's grief.
Then, with startling tenderness, she eases Sudha up and smiles at her, sweet and warm.  "Sweet girl," she whispers, "the road I travel was once written and its ending known; I walked it without regret.  It was your call I heard, and in answering you, I unwrote it, and together, we write it anew, you and I; now I give unto you its end.  Hush," she whispers, wiping Sudha's tears away. "You have loved me as your god all your life, and I loved you as my child; now, you will love me as your daughter, and...of all the world, in all of time, I could not have chosen better the woman who I will love as my mother.  My time is almost done now, but only now.
"Now rest," she whispers, touching Sudha's forehead.  "This will take all your strength and mine to complete, and it will be done.  Rest."
Leaning back into Rabin's oblivious arms, she nods, tear-streaked face at peace.
"Cassiel," she says without turning around.  "Dean Winchester.  Alison of Ichabod.  Will you bear witness to covenant fulfilled?"
"Yes," Alison says quietly, squeezing Sudha's limp hand.  "I will."
"Yes," Castiel says, acknowledging the name without protest.  "But we prefer to be addressed by Castiel; the name is ours and we claim it, but it has been long and long since we have been them."
"As you wish," she says. "Dean Winchester, we await your decision." 
Dean says, "Okay.  One question though--is Vera gonna be okay?  She's not one of yours; is this gonna kill her?"
She turns around, eyes flickering to Castiel in something that may--with an effort--be interpreted as amusement, before looking at Dean.  "This is covenant," she answers slowly, making no effort not to imply Dean is being foolish and Castiel has been remiss in his education.  "She made herself part of its fulfillment.  There will be damage, but we do not stay long, and we shall heal it when we leave.  She will be unimpaired."
"Just so that's clear." Dean's hand loosens reluctantly on Castiel's hip.  "What do you need us to do?"
"Support her," the goddess answers, and after a glance at Castiel, Dean goes to her other side, looking around the room uneasily at everyone absorbed in random tasks, oblivious to them.  "Castiel, please join me.  My Sudha," she says softly, and the unexpected tenderness makes his chest tight, "awaken.  It is time."
Crossing to the bed, he kneels beside her; it's impossible to see Vera in that body.  Despite her efforts, her true form overwhelms it entirely, rich blue skin fading the blue surgical scrubs into insignificance; two of her arms gently reach to spread and arrange Sudha's legs while two others ease her to the very edge of the mattress and provide an anchor, Rabin a support and bulwark behind her.
"We are at the end of our strength," she tells him expressionlessly. "We will require yours."
"I don't have--"  He stops as her eyes meet his.  "We shall do what we can."
She inclines her head before turning to Sudha, another arm reaching beneath her, and Castiel averts his eyes but has no comforting illusions on what is occurring when Sudha gasps in pain, grabbing Dean's and Alison's offered arms.  Resting one of her hands on Sudha's stomach, the goddess' eyes grow distant.
"There will be great pain," she tells Sudha.  
"I can bear it easily," she answers, biting her lip as a fresh well of blood spills onto the floor and allowing Rabin to help support her weight.  "I’m ready."
"So you are."  Sudha's belly ripples alarmingly, and Sudha chokes back a scream at the next gush of blood.  "She is being contrary; your daughter's will is a match for your own."
"Wonder where she got that from," Dean mutters, and a pale Alison exchanges a smirk with Dean, for neither of them have any sense of self-preservation whatsoever.  Then Dean stills, gritting his teeth as Sudha's grip on his arm becomes an order of magnitude tighter.
Castiel watches Sudha's rippling belly, distorting on multiple planes in response to the changes being enacted on her body both to safely bear a child and to assure her future fertility, should she choose to have more; correcting the flaws to the uterus and cervix, manually beginning the chemical process to hasten labor that was partially in abeyance due to her body's confusion with the contrast between her actual body and the miracle that made it possible for her to become pregnant. Further corrections, part of covenant with Sudha but not specific in request, simply to benefit Sudha from nothing more than love and gratitude, are enacted with love and care. Dean and Alison match Sudha's breathing instinctively, the rhythm carrying her through the agonizing physical pain that accompanies remaking a human body in such a fundamental way.
When the goddess's arm emerges from beneath Sudha, it's bloody to the elbow.
"Now," she says to Sudha, "bear down; it will be quick."  She moves slightly.  "My time is almost done.  Castiel, you must be the one to deliver it when it leaves her body."  
He looks at Sudha in alarm, and her grimace of pain turns into a glare.  "There is nothing there that should be unfamiliar to you, Cas. Your female vessels were no different from I."
He ignores Dean and Alison's strangled snickers; their gasps tells him Sudha dealt with that. Yes, they were no different, but he was never within them during this particular event, and vast is the difference between memory, theory, and very messy reality.  Moving over, he waits for Sudha to shift from the bed to crouch over the blood-soaked padding, glancing up when a clean padding is offered by a smiling Njoya.
"Thank you," he says, taking them and wondering how they will remember this evening.  Spreading one on top of the blood, then another when it quickly grows saturated, he makes a thick pad of the third, aware of Njoya hovering with clean towels, Deepika with the bowl of eternally clean but now simply warm water, and Nate with a stack of cloths.  For the baby, he suspects, who will doubtless be rather...fluidy.
At Sudha's gasp, the goddess reaches impatiently to place his hands in the correct position beneath her, just above the padding, and Castiel watches in horrified fascination as a red-stained yellow-brown lump emerge from Sudha's body.  "That's a baby?"
"You said," Sudha grits out, "that you knew of these things from your memories!"
"None of them could actually see this part!" he answers incredulously, realizing his hands are shaking.  Sudha's response is a low growl that becomes a shocked gasp and slowly, more emerges--blood and mucus-covered lumps he realizes belatedly might be shoulders (hopefully), then with a determined snarl, the remainder emerges so abruptly that Castiel is holding a tiny, slippery lump of humanity that at some point will be the size of Sudha or greater.  Looking at it--her, the external sexual characteristics indicate female--he honestly can't imagine how on earth that is possible.
The puckered face clenches as tiny lips part, and time stops entirely.
"We must go," the goddess whispers into his ear.  "What Sudha remembers is her choice; let her have it.  We trust you all will respect it."
"We will," he answers as the baby lies unmoving in his hand, on the cusp of her first breath.  "You have many mortal lines; those of Durga and Pavarti and Devi, they who were of and also Shakti, Great Divine Mother; those when you were but an aspect of one or all; and those who are yours alone. Those lines you have chosen for avatars and vessels both, but hers you never touched; why--now, of all times--did you hear her?"
Her eyebrow raises.
"When you dance upon the earth, none can deny you whatever you may want of them, but you are not so careless as to give them more than that," he says softly. "No one, mortal or god, would ever take another after they knew you.  None could compare."
"Cassiel would not have agreed," she observes dispassionately.  "The balance, he said, must be maintained."
"Cassiel was a...." He bites back several uncomplimentary observations on Cassiel; they never understood passion, and they certainly would never have walked through fire just because they thought it was interesting.  "We believed the same, even then; we just would not admit it.  If you wish for our apology at this late date, you have it; you and Amy would have much to discuss."  He tilts his head. "You have not answered my question."
"When the world was young," she says, "by the Kali Ganga, I lay with a mortal man unlike any before him or any after." She tilts her head. "I quickened, yes, but no mortal seeded what I carried."
Castiel stills, almost forgetting the warm, motionless bundle in his hands. "What?" 
"I allowed it to remain, however, and in the fullness of time, that mortal man met a woman whose beauty was in her strength and will, worthy of this gift.  She came to my temple, and I gave her what she sought."  The stern mouth softens.  "When the world was young, he looked down upon the earth and saw me dance; he sought me by the river that day in secrecy, wearing the borrowed flesh of a mortal man.  I have known many lovers, Castiel, mortal and divine, but only one who would risk the laws of Creation simply for the joy of knowing me. You are correct; when he came to me again, when I permitted him to find me, he told me none could compare."  The faint sense of satisfaction is unmistakable. "But he did try. You see, at the time, it was supposed to be a joke."
He looks at Sudha, stunned.  "I would have known...." Then he remembers who he's talking about and starts to laugh: of course.  That would be part of the joke, yes, one that no one would even know existed.  That would explain why she tried to kill him; the only wonder is he survived that long.  "I better understand why you were displeased with him."
"We are the Destroyer," she says quietly, looking at Sudha, the tenderness as unmistakable as the fierce love.  "But we are the Creator as well; it is fitting that this be our final work upon the earth."
He almost asks her to stay; two dawns from now, the barrier will rise again, and she'll be safe behind it.  Then he dismisses it; she would never be content to hide and watch her people slaughtered, and combat would risk them becoming Lucifer's.  "Are you--"
"We were, are, and will be the last." She looks at him.  "The Misborn sought me in time; I ran.  I did not allow them to catch me; my death would be of my choosing, not Lucifer's; my people are mine, he will not touch them; I would give him nothing."  She pauses, eyes turning inward for a moment.  "Wherever I went, they would find me; no matter how many I killed, more would replace them...and I heard him."
Castiel straightens.  "Who?"
"The impossible," she answers.  "He asked the question, and through all of space and time, I heard it.  I followed his call and manifested before him to give him my response."  She rises gracefully, and he watches her armor materialize around her like a second skin, mercury and onyx and living fire, a gleaming sword at her side and khaṭvāṅga in her hand.  "My answer is yes.  There I began the road I chose to walk. I must be the last, Castiel, that much has not changed; it was to be my end as well, but that--that, I changed myself."  
Those words: the mess, she said that, too.  "What are you doing?"
"I must go," she says.  "It must draw its first breath, and I must learn what it is to be mortal from first principles."  Her gaze drifts to the child in his hands, almost dubious.  "It shall be different."
With an effort, he gathers his scattered thoughts.  "If they chase you, where will you go that they can't find you while you descend?"
"Where our road began, of course.  Lucifer looked forward and back to find us, to hunt us," she says.  "But no one can see the impossible, even Lucifer, and the impossible hides us all, now as well as then.  He will help me, as he helped her first." She tilts her head, looking at him.  "This town protected our daughter and will protect us as well; for one score years, the earth will repay our debt with plenty."
"They will be grateful," he says honestly.  "On their behalf, I thank you."
The dark eyes narrow, and she then says the most ominous words that can ever be spoken by a god  "We owe you a debt for your work today as well, Castiel."
Castiel fights to remain still; it was all going so well until now.  "You don't, truly."  This never ends well for mortals, that much he's well aware.
"We shall pay it now."  Before he can think of a way to stop her (there isn't one, but he would try), burning fingers touch his forehead, and he's aware of nothing but agony, burned alive for all of time.  Then it's over; not even the memory of pain remains.  To his own surprise, he's still kneeling with all parts accounted for and not at all crispy fried.  "The debt is paid," she says, and he looks at her sharply; the satisfaction in her voice is unmistakable.  "It's not over yet, Castiel of Chitaqua; it's only just begun."
Abruptly, the room is in motion; Sudha's panting, Dean and Alison helping her back onto the bed, and the tiny girl in his hands begins to wail as if she's been waiting all of time for just that (possibly in shock, possibly simply because she's a baby and they do that a great deal).
"First principles," he tells her, smiling helplessly, and wide brown eyes slit open to regard him with startling clarity and not a little doubt, a glittering spark deep within. "This would be those, yes. You'll be fine."
"Cas," Sudha says urgently, and Castiel quickly takes the offered sheet, wrapping the baby carefully before setting it in Sudha's waiting arms. Despite her exhaustion, her face lights up, cradling her daughter as Rabin stares at her in patent shock. "Sweet girl," she whispers tenderly, stroking the tiny cheek, utterly indifferent to blood and--other things.  "She's beautiful, is she not?"
Dean's ridiculous grin tells him that apparently, the question is not ironic.  "Gorgeous," Dean agrees with unmistakable sincerity as the others abruptly crowd around the bed.  "Just like her mom."
Castiel looks at Alison and is immediately relieved at her dubious expression before she quickly re-arranges her features into agreement.  "Very," she says.  "You and Rabin pick a name?"
Sudha, investigating beneath the sheet and looking delighted at the tiny foot, nods.  "Jaya," she answers.  "We decided on Jaya."
"I like it," Vera says, and Castiel turns, startled, aware of all the eyes in the room now fixed on her as well.  She looks very pale but is still upright, but there's no way to know how long that will last.  "Why is everyone looking at me like that?"
Nate opens his mouth and shuts it with a click at Castiel's warning look.  "Nothing at all," he says clearly, and thinks at Alison, Can you warn everyone not to react, please? The relevant people should understand her easily, after all; perhaps they'll simply assume...he has no idea how to explain Vera speaking Hindi.  Hopefully, no one will ask.
Alison gives him an incredulous look but nods, and Castiel is relieved to see everyone make themselves very busy.
"Move, Cas.  Sudha, I need to check you and the baby out, okay?"  Her eyes travel over everyone, pausing to blink at Dean a few times before shaking her head as if to clear it.  "Hint: everyone leave but Sudha and three people she asks to stay.  Cas, don't even try: I need you here."
He nods helplessly. "Of course," he agrees.  "I should definitely stay while everyone who Sudha doesn't require here leaves."  Looking at Vera carefully, he tries to decide how much time she has. "Dean, if you would, perhaps Karl or Lewis or Dolores should be told?  About the baby."
Dean looks between him and Vera.  "Good idea," he agrees.  "I'll do that."
It's nearly forty-five minutes--after two Apgars, a check of Sudha as well as the administration of an opiate, and the arrival of Karl (already warned to pretend Vera is speaking English)--before Vera frowns, rubbing her forehead distractedly, and Castiel has just enough time to catch her as she abruptly loses consciousness.
The next room over has been fully furnished, and after they've settled Vera, Alison excuses herself to join them.  Her expression watching Sudha with her daughter bonding was probably more revealing than she realized, and he knows Dean saw it as well; the only question is which of them (Alison or Teresa) is so affected.
Vera wakes briefly to growl a warning (in Hindi) before going back to sleep.  Alison raises an eyebrow.  "Guess carrying a god around makes you sensitive."
"Is there any damage?"  The goddess said she would repair it, and in this case, he believes it without reservation.  If she needed to keep Vera functional to care for Sudha, however, the healing would probably be delayed.
"You tell me."  Her hand reaches for his without hesitation, fingers cold, and Castiel folds them against his palm to warm them as he searches Vera's mind.  The divine touch of a god is subtle but unmistakable; he shows Alison how to recognize it as it does its work with care as Vera sleeps.  He also searches Alison's mind as she concentrates on Vera, looking for any sign of damage from direct contact with a god's power, and is less than surprised to find all is on order.  "Want me to ask Haruhi to get Amanda?"
He raises his eyebrow, but Alison looks back blandly, and he decides it's pointless to even ask.  "I think Amanda would appreciate it." 
"How long?" Dean asks from the door, and as Alison concentrates on finding Haruhi, Castiel goes to join him. 
"Twelve hours at most," he replies.  "Probably at dawn."
"And she'll be okay?"
"She was careful, but her power was also greatly diminished, and the time she spent in Vera brief to complete the covenant," he answers.  "If she was planning to descend, she'd want to burn out as much as possible first in any case; that would explain her gift to Ichabod, at least.  We should have requested she use some of it to perform a miracle and perhaps fix whatever issue with wastewater is requiring the creation of latrines."
"Wish I'd thought of that."  Dean looks curious. "Why would she want to burn out her power first?"
"Divinity is too small," he explains.  "It's...limited.  A human soul is in potential all things and in actuality many things, sometimes contradictory, in succession or all at once; the divine can only ever be divine." Dean's expression tells him he should try again.  "A god is a chair--a very nice chair, perhaps, an extraordinary chair--but that's all they can be and can only do those things that a chair can do; a human soul can be furniture that never existed before or will again."
"Furniture."
"I've been thinking we should take our bed here back to Chitaqua," he admits, and Dean starts to laugh, but Castiel doesn't miss the lines around his mouth, the shadow in the green eyes. "It's a very nice bed."
"It can go in the new room," Dean agrees, grinning at him and earning them both a loud sigh from Alison.  "So what, it--interferes with the soul?"
He thinks how to put this.  "To become mortal--much like becoming a god--requires a leap of faith.  Your burnt offering is everything, leaving nothing behind; only then can you become something else."  Like the rack, he thinks but doesn't say, in intent if not in practicalities, and once again, he's unwillingly reminded of the other Castiel, who burned away his own divinity in exchange for godhead.
Amanda arrives quickly enough that Castiel assumes she only took enough time to put on her boots (while running, he guesses), flannel thrown over a tank top and glaring at them all suspiciously.  Castiel leaves the explanation to Dean, the gist of which is 'falling barrier' and 'because magic and maybe the earth' without any mention of gods, a divine birth, or Vera as temporary vessel; it shouldn't be believable--in fact, he's not even sure it makes sense--but he almost believes it himself when Dean is done.
(He hopes the earth doesn't take offense at being blamed.  He should speak to Teresa, just in case.)
It probably helps that Amanda loses interest immediately after 'she'll be fine when she wakes up'.  "Awesome," she says, eyes on Vera as she retrieves a chair and pulls it up to the bed.  "I'll keep watch."
"Inform me when she awakens," he tells Amanda's back, and she waves a hand to acknowledge and also shoo them all out.   
Looking amused, Alison goes back to see if Sudha needs anything and meets Dolores just coming out, tired face wreathed in a smile.  Inside, Castiel sees Sudha coaxing Cathy close enough to hold the baby, and seeing her expression--grief and tentative pleasure--he hopes Sudha and Alicia were both correct that this might help ease her pain.
"Shower here isn't restricted," Dolores tells him.  "There's some sweats in there--Karl's, I think--so wear those when you go back to headquarters."
"Thank you," he says in relief as Nate gets up from one of the chairs.  "Are you going back now?"
"Yeah, I need to make sure James and Mira are okay," he says.  "You need me to do anything?"
"Confirm with Mel that Dean and I are off-duty until an hour after dawn," he says, ignoring Dean's frown.  "Also, remind her that we need to meet with the team leaders two hours before noon and to tell those coming in or going off duty tonight.  The patrol schedule should already reflect the changes."
"Got it," he says, and Dean nods absent dismissal when Nate turns to him for any further instruction, which has the effect of requiring Castiel to hide his smile.  
As Nate jogs down the hall, Dean tips his head toward the stairs. "Let's get you cleaned up. You ready?"
They take the back stairs to the admin section, but it's obvious the time bubble has dispersed by the sheer level of noise. Stripping down in the chilly bathroom--Sudha's room remains warm and will doubtless continue to be until she's released from the infirmary--he steps beneath the lukewarm spray.
"So you were really armed," Dean remarks, gathering up the plethora of weapons and checking the small jars as Castiel ducks beneath the hot spray of water.  "Powdered cold iron?"
"Quickest way to deal with glamor without shedding blood or having the correct plants on hand," he says, and hears Dean sneeze.  "As well as a simple way to break fey bindings.  Fey can manipulate perception of time, not time itself, but it can be hard to tell the difference, and I wanted to be prepared.  The strongest of them can deceive even an angel if they're very determined and very, very suicidal." He hears Dean wipe his nose and make a surprised noise, encouraging him to elaborate.  "Your exposure has been to the lesser ones and those that have bred with mortals; the great courts passed beyond the veil millennia ago."
"Why does that sound like foreshadowing?" Dean asks suspiciously, and he can almost see him glancing around worriedly for any stray royal fey.
"If you are asking if they've returned, yes," he answers, and he hears something fall that he hopes isn't the powered cold iron; that is not easy to make.  "They are not ones to miss such an opportunity.  Are they interfering with mortals? No, they do learn from their mistakes, a genuine surprise; they've never displayed common sense before, but truly, all things are indeed possible.  The great queens, from what I've gathered, have issued strict warnings; if only we could convince them to come and gather up the brownies, but depressingly, they've been here too long."
"Queens?"
"In general, the fey are strictly matriarchal," he answers.  "That would be why you hear few stories of young women being tempted beneath the earth to dally forever for the pleasure of the court.  Not so terrible a fate, most would think, until you consider the length of 'forever', the performance limitations of the mortal body, and the lack of same in a fey.  In case you're curious, it rarely ends well for the man in question, unless he is fortunate enough to have a mortal woman love him enough to forgive him his trespasses and comes herself to claim him."
Dean snorts a laugh.  "Never thought of that."
"Men rarely do," he replies. "If you feel tempted, I beg you consider how the fey might react to carnal disappointment and plan accordingly."
"Talk about pressure...." Dean trails off, and Castiel hears him packing up the weapons before there's an unsettled silence.  "That wasn't your goddess, the one at the church," Dean says abruptly, and Castiel almost drops the washcloth.  "I knew her, though."
That is one way to put it. "You did, yes."
"I’m thinking her name right now," Dean says, an edge in his voice.  "But I can't say it--"
"It's deliberate; she masked it, but she could not--and would not--inhibition recognition in this case."  He pauses in scrubbing; blood is pernicious.  "If you try hard enough, you should be able to break it, but I don't recommend it, at least until the barrier rises again."
"Why?"
There are many reasons a god would do so, but none of them are relevant now.  "Practicality, I suspect.  If Lucifer were to search the minds of those in attendance, none could reveal her under any of her names, even by accident. The gods are supposed to be confirmed dead two years ago; any hint of her appearance now would..." 
"Be bad," Dean finishes for him since he's honestly not sure.  "It's easier to find her with a name, yeah, I remember."
"It was a risk, what she did for Sudha, that much was clear," he says honestly.  "Gods generally don't mask themselves without a very good reason, especially among their worshippers." 
"But we all know a god was here."
"He can't search my mind, yours is restricted by mine, and I wish him well prying anything from Alison's mind," he answers, remembering Alison's expression: a strong will, dangerously strong, the kind of will the Host liked least in humans.  Like Dean, breaking it was impossible without knowing exactly the right place to strike at the right time, and like Dean, the consequences of doing that were unpredictable at best and disastrous at worst (case in point, Dean Winchester: please turn to page ten in your non-existent textbooks on what not to do and who not to do it to. It's a very short book, and Dean wrote most of it).  "For the others--there's no proof of it being a god, just one who appears a god.  A name confirms it, especially one spoken, and it is far more noticeable and liable to get his attention."  In any case, a very minor god who happened to escape the purge would be very different than knowing that this one, somehow, was here when she shouldn't be.
Dean seems to accept that, for now at least.  "So, Nate--if he didn't do anything to the room, why was he here?"
"The fact he was excluded from the time bubble implies he was needed when Sudha gave birth, and there's no reason I can think of unless it was something to do with his work on her room.  For what, I don't know, so you needn't ask." He thinks for a moment.  "However, it would probably be wise for Sudha to remain there with her child until the barrier rises. It's possible that may protect them both, on the extraordinarily unlikely chance the Misborn were aware of the time suspension here and intuit the possible reason for it."
"Right. And you were probably to do the witness thing," Dean says.  "But why the rest of them--okay, scratch that, maybe Sudha needed them.  So that leaves me.  Why wasn't I suspended or whatever?"
Castiel hesitates.  "I don't know," he answers slowly.  "But--it could be a coincidence, of course."
"Spit it out," Dean says, a sigh in his voice.
"She didn't manifest until you entered the room.  The first time you entered the room," he says, adding quickly, "but that might also have been the first time everyone excluded from the time bubble was within it as well.  I didn't think to watch for that."
The silence outside the shower isn't reassuring, and Castiel distracts himself with undistracted cleaning.
"She was different," Dean says finally, grudgingly.  "Not like--when we met.  I wouldn't have thought she's give a shit about anyone."
"You never worshipped her," he answers.  "The aspect you knew was but an aspect; she's a god always, but not one to you and never yours.  Four people in that room were hers, and Sudha of her own line; she loves them.  That's what gods do; they can't help it."
Rinsing off, Castiel considers how to broach this particular subject and decides simply to say it.  "While we were out of time, she spoke to me." In the interests of honesty, he adds, "She also said she owed me a debt as well as Ichabod, but--"
The shower door is open before he realizes Dean even moved, the water off, and he finds himself pressed against the icy tile, Dean's hands clamped around his face as he peers into his eyes.  "What did she do to you?"
"I don't know."  Dean steps back, looking him over as if--what? "What are you looking for?"
"If she has a sick sense of humor," Dean answers grimly, and at his gesture, Castiel turns around, resigning himself to Dean being Dean.  "So far so good," he says grudgingly, and Castiel snorts as he turns back around.  "You feel--anything different?"
"Not really."  Without the warmth of the water, however, it's getting colder.  "Dean, she was paying a debt; for all I know, she assured I live four score years in health."
"How can that go wrong?" Dean demands. "Like health but without your feet or something?"
Castiel smiles, offering a silent apology to Nate; he wasn't up to the standard of Dean Winchester, but then again, no one could be.  
"What?"
"Nothing," he answers, recalling himself.  "Can I finish please? Also, it's getting cold."
Dean's eyes narrow, but he nods, going back out and waiting impatiently outside the now not-quite closed shower door; in case, he supposes, something happens, though what, he has no idea. 
"So you said she spoke to you," Dean starts.  "Anything I need to know? Put it another way--do I need to know, maybe should know, or doesn't matter and it'll wait?"
"The last for the most part," he admits.  "And some in the second category, I'm not sure.  Nothing that affects what's happening now, in any case.  There was a reason she told me out of time and let me remember it after without requesting I conceal it--if she had, I would have told you immediately--but...what she said, it seemed familiar, and I'm not sure why." He tries to recall the mess again and as always, frustration is his only reward.  "If it helps, most of it was--personal."
"I get what Alison meant about 'do I need to know'," he answers thoughtfully, and relieved, Castiel smiles.  "Need to know is always shitty, ignorance is bliss.  Never thought I'd say that."
Ducking under the spray, Castiel finishes rinsing away the soap and comes out; the chill of the room should inhibit any desire to remain unclothed, but Dean's gaze keeps making him forget that.
"You ready to get back?" he asks, tipping his head toward the door, and Castiel nods.  As Dean passes him, he notes Dean's right hand seems very attached to being pocketed.  "Let's go."
Kara is working front desk, and Dean waves at her as they come in.  Castiel notes how her gaze lingers on Dean, and Dean grins back, as if unaware doing that might very well be the equivalent of a naturally occurring compulsion, requiring all that behold his smile to immediately feel an overwhelming need to throw themselves at him.  "Have a good night.  Try to get bed by dawn, okay?"
"Night, Dean," she answers, expression wistful.  "And Cas," she adds, looking startled at his existence, and he bites back a laugh, nodding seriously at her self-conscious expression; this is probably not an appropriate time to tell her Dean has this effect on everyone with (and sometimes without) a pulse.
"I'll get dinner," Castiel tells Dean, who nods absent agreement, and Castiel watches him thoughtfully before starting toward the mess.
Fortunately, part of tonight's dinner is still available; carne guisado (with a surprising and gratifying multitude of preserved peppers and onions swimming in the rich gravy), rice, and sliced nopales, still crisp within their foil wrapping.  He doesn't bother seeking out two plates, simply finding the largest and placing enough for them both on it before placing it in the microwave, a miracle of the modern times that mortality has taught him to appreciate.
Placing a wet paper towel over it (reason unclear but the word 'moisture' was involved in Brenda's explanation), he sets the timer for a minute and thirty seconds (then check and stir, if he remembers correctly) and collects a portion of the tortillas that Alonzo prepared this morning, a skill he's teaching Brenda as well.  
Leaning back against the counter, Castiel watches the timer and finds himself thinking about their food supply.  Even his most optimistic calculations on what Ichabod has available and what they received from both the local towns as well as the Alliance don't account for feeding this many for this long, and he knows that no one goes hungry for lack of a meal.
Ichabod's herds are very large, he knows; they are only beginning to breed stock, but a great deal they've collected from the wild over the last two years, escaped from abandoned farms.  When possible, they hunt for meat to increase the number of domestic animals available for breeding and to provide themselves with milk and butter not limited to cows but also goats and their small herd of sheep, the latter of which provide wool as well.
When the microwave pings, Castiel takes a fork with him, checking the temperature before stirring carefully and replacing the paper towel before closing it and setting the timer again.
Nothing is wasted; leather is made from the hides of the animals they kill if possible, fat, rendered into a variety of substances including lubricants, creams for skin protection and treatments, and soap; organs carefully preserved for their nutritional value or medical use.  They're prudent in harvesting, everything that can be preserved canned or jarred, held as insurance against failed crops or natural disaster, and they never would have become to branch into crops raised for trade if they were anything other than stable, but even with all that, they could not have this much food.
What did Joelle tell him when she brought the casserole (as it turns out, one of several that would arrive that day): rice.
When he returns to the room with the plate, silverware, and a jug of water and two plastic tumblers, he finds the bed (somewhat) made and Dean frowning at his hand.
"Hey," Dean says, hiding his startlement badly, and Castiel pretends not to notice.  "What--oh, carne guisada?  Hell yes."
Setting the tray on the mattress, he pours them both water before joining Dean, who takes the fork with surprising alacrity. 
"Joelle said they were in no danger of running out of rice," he tells Dean half-way through the meal. "I assumed she was trying to reassure me on availability of food, but...."
"Yeah, I was wondering about our never-ending supplies," Dean agrees after swallowing an enthusiastic mouthful.  "I meant to talk to Alison or Lanak about that.  I mean, they can't have much more--"
"They shouldn't have any at all," he interrupts.  "For the last two days at least.  Not without slaughtering most of their breeding stock, and that doesn't account for the vegetables, though rice I can believe; it stores well. They probably searched every empty town for fifty miles to get anything that wasn't perishable."
Dean's fork stops mid-way to his mouth.  "You're sure about that?"
"There are no riots and no mysteriously disappearing people," he says, and Dean frowns before his eyes widen in horror. "This isn't human flesh.  Obviously."
"Way to kill the appetite."  Noticeably, he still eats the bite on his fork. "So you don't think maybe the other towns...."
"They contributed much, and the Alliance did as well," he says, doing rough calculations again to make sure.  " 
"I'll talk to Alison tomorrow."
When they're done, Castiel puts the tray in a corner of the room out of the way to return to the kitchen for later.  As he returns to the bed, he sees Dean looking down at his right hand with a bewildered expression.  "Dean?"
Dean drops his hand into his lap before he slides to the edge of the bed and gets to his feet.  "I'm gonna--"
Without thinking, he reaches out.  "Is your hand bothering you--" 
Dean jerks it away, retreating a step toward the bed, and Castiel freezes.  He's not sure which is worse; that Dean pulled away or that, from the look on his face, he didn't mean to do it.
"Sorry," Dean says quickly, staring at him in shock before abruptly dropping onto the mattress, shoulders curling in on themselves like withering leaves.  "Sorry, it's--I don't know.  Long day, I guess.  It's fine, just a little sore."
"Dean--"
"Long day," Dean repeats, looking at his own hand like he's wondering where he can hide it. "It's just, you know, tired."
Even from here, Castiel can see how tightly his fingers are curled against his palm and wonders in horror how he missed this.  "How long has it been like this?"
"It's just tired," Dean grinds out, staring at the floor.  "It pulled the trigger on twenty-six people and a fuckload of Croats yesterday.  My fuck up, I fix it, Cas; you shouldn't have to."
There are many ways Castiel could respond to that; he chooses none of them. "Your boots--would you like me to get them for you?"
Dean nods jerkily.  "Sure, yeah.  Thanks."
Crouching, he forces himself not to look at Dean's hand and instead concentrates on easing off each boot and then each sock, buying himself time to acknowledge he doesn't know what to do. If Dean were ill or injured, he'd make him soup and sandwiches without crusts and read to him and fetch endless wet cloths for his fever; if Dean were threatened, he'd kill it; if Dean were bored, he'd find something to capture his interest; if Dean wanted sex, they'd have it; this is none of those things, where there is something to do, and if he didn't know how to do it, he could learn.  All he knows of easing pain is how to forget it, at least for a little while.

You couldn't do it wrong. Being you was all you had to do to get it right.

Standing up, he looks down at the bent head, the defeated bow of his shoulders, and without thinking, strokes an errant strand of dark hair.  "Look at me," he says quietly, and slowly, reluctantly, Dean looks up.  "You're not a monster."
Dean stills, green eyes dark, then abruptly tips forward, resting his head against Castiel's stomach with a sigh, hands coming to rest on his hips, fingers tight enough that he hopes there will be bruises come morning.  
Unthinkingly, he moves closer, breath catching as Dean leans more heavily against him, letting Castiel take the precious weight of his body, freely offering what is beyond all price.  He threads his fingers through Dean's hair more firmly and is rewarded by a muffled sound, shoulders starting to shake beneath his hands, breath fast and hot through his t-shirt.  Slowly, patiently, he strokes the dark hair, dragging the tips of his fingers against his scalp and down the smooth, soft skin at the back of Dean's neck.   He runs his thumb over the knob of his spine, feeling the lingering ache of muscles bunched too tight for far too many hours like they're his own.
"How old was Andy?" The words are breathed against the now-damp material of Castiel's shirt but audible all the same, carrying new tension to his shoulders and back.  "I didn't even--I should know that."
"Twenty-six as of October eighteenth," he answers.  "He and Kat had a private celebration, from what I understand, which led to the much belated consummation of the decision not to be just friends." Stroking Dean's hair back, he feels Dean move into the touch and thinks he may have a plan. Or at least a course of action.  "Let me assist you to prepare for bed."
Dean lifts his head, red-rimmed eyes narrowing.  "You have a thing for undressing me or something?  Boots, coat today...this a thing or something?"
"Dressing and undressing you, yes," he agrees.  "Especially when they're my clothes."
Dean's mouth drops open.  "What?"
"Arming you, disarming you, the list goes on. Even doing our combined laundry carries--something of this, it's very odd.  I didn't realize I was being subtle," he adds.  "I'm not sure whether it's reassuring or depressing that you didn't notice, but it's consistent, at least."
Dean closes his mouth with an audible click.
"Stand up," he says firmly, and Dean gets unsteadily to his feet.  Reaching for the hem of his sweater, Castiel tugs it up his chest, raising an eyebrow, and Dean belatedly raises his arms so he can pull it off.  The thermal follows, but he pauses at the t-shirt--Grateful Dead, excellent choice--and shakes his head; extending gratification is perfectly legitimate and there are other things to deal with first. "You can put your arms down."
"Uh." He cuts off when Castiel unbuttons his jeans, breath catching audibly when Castiel kneels to drag the thermal underwear over his hips and down his legs. "Huh."
"Sit down," he says, and sees the mattress bounce in his peripheral vision.  Pulling jeans and thermal free of Dean's feet, he tosses them to the pile near the chair, Castiel looks up curiously.  "You were saying?"
Dean blinks at him, pink tongue darting out to lick his lips.  "Let's go with what?"
"Even when the potential for sex wasn't involved--which until very recently it wasn't--it was oddly satisfying," he answers as he stands back up.  "Move to the center of the mattress."  Circling the bed, he goes to get the lotion that Dean took from Alison's kitchen that inexplicably ended up among their bags when they moved to headquarters.  "Sometimes, I'd craft very elaborate scenarios in which circumstances vague required me to select all the clothing that you'd wear that day.  Despite our limited selection, it would take some time to choose exactly the right ensemble before dressing you in it."
"You'd...." Dean drops down on the center of the bed with a very odd expression. "You'd jerk off to--to imagining picking my clothes and dressing me?"
"That would make sense, wouldn't it?  No." Finding the half-empty bottle of lotion at the bottom of his bag, he wonders uncertainly if they should pretend they have no idea what bottle Alison is talking about when she finds it missing or offer something in trade.  "I mean, obviously yes, sometimes," Dean makes an inarticulate noise, "but most of the time it had nothing to do with sex.  It was simply a very enjoyable way to pass the time.  Soothing."
"Soothing."
"Like meditation, now that I think about it," he agrees.  "Next time Teresa invites me to meditate with her, I'll try visualizing that.  Also, fun."
"Like, what, a girl with her first Barbie?"  Castiel frowns, reviewing his limited experience with the daycare, but from what he remembers, interest in dolls wasn't limited to a single gender or sex.  "You're fucking with me!"
"I'm not sure," he admits, unwilling to dismiss any potential explanation.  "Like--cooking for you. Rescuing you from Hell.  Driving you to various locations."
Standing back up, he turns to see Dean staring at him in horror (or more accurately, attempting horror and not quite achieving it: interesting).
"Some of it is primate social bonding behavior, yes, or at least, how I seem to be interpreting it, but the rest…. I can't explain it," he admits, "but as so little of humanity is explicable, my best guess is territoriality--"
"What?" Dean exclaims, but something in his expression tells Castiel perhaps he did notice...something.  He should find out one day.  "I'm not territory!"
"Tell that to my hindbrain." He joins Dean on the bed, settling cross-legged across from him and opening the bottle of lotion. "I assure you, I see you as an independent person and not an object, but the hindbrain contains primal instincts that date back before you were even sentient and it responds not at all to arguments that we live in more enlightened times and there's no need to visually mark you as mine to all that might behold you.  One adjusts, or so I've heard.  Give me your hand."
Dean automatically extends his hand.  "Do you even hear what you're--" He stops short, staring down at his hand while Castiel peels away the brace, closing a hand firmly around Dean's wrist in case he tries to pull away.  "How did you…."
"Distraction, habit, and proof of the effectiveness of positive reinforcement in classical conditioning.  You're not the only one that understands how useful it can be." Frowning, he turns Dean's hand over and bites his lip against a curse; the fingers are curled tightly, probably overextension of the tendons. "Can you extend your fingers?  Slowly: don't force it."
Dean nods shortly, and Castiel watches closely as he slowly extends his fingers, the tremor increasing exponentially until he stops just short at less than one third extension.  "That's it," he breathes, and Castiel doesn't need to ask how much pain he's in.  
"Relax your hand."  Pressing his thumb to the center of Dean's palm, he feels the rigidity beneath the developing calluses, following it carefully over the heel and wrist and mapping the scar tissue extending up Dean's forearm inch by inch.  What Dean can no longer feel with his destroyed nerves Castiel learned to do by touch, marking each miniscule change, turning Dean's arm slowly to track the shift of muscle and bone against the pads of his fingers before returning to check each individual tendon in his wrist one by one.  Dean would probably be aware of a tear, but nerve misfire has been a problem more than once, and if Dean was busy (he has been) he might not even have noticed, much less remembered.  "How long has it been like this?" 
Dean shakes his head. "It's not important, I fucked up--"
"How.  Long?" Castiel asks flatly, watching Dean's face.  "Since yesterday, the Croat attack?"
He nods, and Castiel wonders how on earth he could have missed this very obvious explanation for Dean's clumsiness bandaging his arm that evening.  Because he's an idiot and this is Dean.
"Have you taken anything?  Name and dosage."
"Ibuprofen, 800 MG, last night," Dean answers shortly. "Hot water helped relax it.  At least until now."
Castiel scrolls through the available drugs in Vera's kit as well as their own and wishes he'd confirmed what Ichabod had on hand.  "A muscle relaxant--"
"They fuck with my head."  He wants to argue the point, but he knows from experience that the benefits of pain relief won't compensate for the inevitable result of artificial sedation.  Dean has few defenses against what haunts his sleep far too many nights, and he won't risk compromising Dean's ability to awaken himself or Castiel doing it for him if needed.  Having now experienced the something of the range of what dreams can do, he understands far better why a lack of escape is not something to be discarded with impunity.  "So?"
"What?"
"So, how bad did I fuck it up?"  He snaps his gaze to Dean.  "Just--just tell me, okay?"
"You didn't."  Reaching blindly, he tugs a pillow from the headboard and sits it in his lap before placing Dean's hand on it, fingers curling reflexively inward, and retrieves the lotion.  "I should have been paying closer attention.  I am now."
"Cas, it's not your job--"
"It is my job," he interrupts.  "It will always be difficult if not impossible for you to judge injury to your hand due to the damage from the infection; I can." Though in this case, there is no possible way Dean wasn't aware, but that's irrelevant.
"You shouldn't have to."
"I want to." Dean swallows, looking away. "It's a privilege I have no intention of being denied."  Pouring the lotion into his hand, he waits for it to warm a little before reaching for Dean's hand.  Starting at the heel, he starts to knead, feeling the tightly knotted muscles slowly begin to loosen.  "Now relax."
Dean lets out a startled breath, and Castiel slowly and carefully works his way to Dean's palm, keeping his touch light at first and following the cues of Dean's body on when to increase pressure and how much.  
"Is this helping?" he asks, glancing up to observe Dean's half-closed eyes in satisfaction.
"Yeah," Dean breathes huskily.  "Keep.  Doing that."
Concentrating, he feels each individual muscle loosen, and thinks that this would be an excellent time to offer suggestions.
"Lie down," he says invitingly, smiling when Dean's eyes slit open suspiciously and moving the pillow into position. "Endorphins are best enjoyed while supine."
Dean makes a face even as he drops onto the mattress with a sigh, curling on his left side, and Castiel helpfully moves closer, stretching Dean's arm across his lap to reduce potential strain.  Getting more lotion, he starts again, shifting to the knuckles and watching Dean's body carefully, and not entirely for the simple pleasure of doing so (though there's that as well).  
Dean's threshold for pain is astronomically high, and far more relevant, minimizing it while in public view is reflexive to the point that Castiel's fairly sure he doesn't even realize he's doing it.  If he'd noticed earlier (perhaps when Dean was fresh from a three-mile long escape from a small army of Croats after a fight at the ward line?  Or any time after) and taken him somewhere private to see to it, his hand wouldn't be in this condition at all; Dean doesn't hide from him, not anymore.
Fortunately, Dean has no inhibitions whatsoever in showing what he enjoys, which is excellent for diagnostic purposes and devastatingly effective in eliciting lust.  No one wearing faded blue and red plaid boxers should be able to do that so effortlessly, but it's appallingly likely Dean could make quite literally any article of clothing seductive.
Working each individual finger in turn, he watches Dean stretch out by degrees across the length of the mattress like slow-motion visual pornography for extreme masochists with a fetish for a PG rating.  The accompany soundtrack of sighs, breathless moans, and a random assortment of single consonants that inexplicably require at least three syllables to articulate is--
Dean makes an obscenely contented sigh as Castiel finishes with the tight webbing between finger and thumb, t-shirt rucked up just enough to reveal a thin strip of pale skin.  Endorphins, he reminds himself firmly; they do this, it's--something, he doesn't care, but another shower is in his immediate future, and he doesn't care about water rationing, he'll dig them a well to make up for it.
Taking a deep breath, he gets more lotion and methodically goes over Dean's hand again before saying, in what he hopes is at least some semblance of a normal voice, "Try to extend your fingers again.  This time, stop if there's any pain at all."
Dean slits open his eyes and slowly extends each finger to just over two-thirds extension before making a fist and smiling drowsily.  "Better," he confirms, adding after a long moment, "When can I use it again?"
"Twenty-four hours of rest, if possible," he says, and Dean makes a face but nods, not surprised or simply far too relaxed to care; it could go either way.  "I'll repeat in the morning and tomorrow night--and on request, of course.  No permanent damage, if that's what you're worried about."
Dean nods, rolling bonelessly onto his back, heel sliding sensuously against the bedcover.  His eyes fall closed as he stretches, slow and full-body, back arching off the bed for a period of time comparable to the primordial soup of the oceans developing sentient life (twice) before dropping back onto the mattress with a suggestive bounce.  He didn't realize those could even be suggestive; humanity is indeed filled with surprises.
Appalled, Castiel realizes this image won't be the fuel of a very questionable masturbation session in the shower; recall alone will be all that's required, water, clothes, and physical stimulation optional.  Even those first deeply bewildering and distracting weeks after his libido asserted itself so dramatically and all at once, it wasn't like this; if it had been, he wouldn't have survived.
Then the green eyes open, and he forgets to breathe. 
Pushing himself up on his left arm, Dean licks his lips glossy before turning in place, and in a single, fluid moment straddles Castiel's lap.  "Got any plans for tonight?"
Cupping Dean's hips, he strokes his thumbs in the hollows beneath the soft cotton before sliding his palms over the curve of Dean's ass and jerking him closer, hearing Dean's breath catch at the press of his cock against Castiel's own.  
"I do now," he murmurs, fixing on Dean's mouth. Sliding a hand up the length of Dean's back, he knots his fingers in his hair and tugs him unresisting into a kiss.
He thinks of those endless hours in their bed in Chitaqua, making out for what felt like forever, learning the feel of his lips and taste of his mouth, the sound of his breathless sighs, the shape of his body, greedy to discover everything he could and realizing anew each night the vastness he still had yet to learn.
He slides his tongue along the seam of Dean's lips, coaxing them apart before skimming over his palate and tasting his tongue, drawing his thumb through the thick stubble against the grain.  Dean tilts his head, changing the angle and deepening the kiss, and he hums his approval when Dean's teeth scrape over his tongue before sucking it deeper.
Eventually, he has to breathe; drawing back, he takes in the reddened lips and half-closed eyes in satisfaction.  "What do you want?"
Dean's answer is barely a breath. "How about you show me?"
Castiel searches his face before drawing him back down into another kiss, relearning the shape of his mouth as he runs his thumb along the stretched elastic of his boxers and pushing up the ragged hem of his t-shirt, skimming his nails up Dean's back and feeling him arch.  
"Lift your arms," he murmurs, gathering the soft cotton in both hands before skimming it up and over his head.  He mouths a kiss against the soft skin of his breastbone before licking over one dark nipple, feeling it harden as Dean shivers before taking it between his lips.
"Cas," Dean gasps, and Castiel catches his right hand, easing it back down to rest on his thigh.  Delicately, he circles the aureole with the tip of his tongue, resting a hand on Dean's back as he takes it between his teeth and then starts to suck.  "God," Dean breathes, left hand curving around the back of his neck. "Yeah."
Bracing a hand between Dean's shoulder blades, he lowers him down to the mattress, finishing with a final lick before drawing a line with his tongue to the other, holding himself above Dean just enough that he can't easily rub up against him.  
"Cas, come on," Dean mutters, shoving his hips up. Reaching down with one hand, Castiel pins them to the bed.
Biting down once, Castiel sits up, shifting until he's straddling Dean's waist.  "They didn't know me."
"What?" Dean asks distractedly.
"Those who decided my role in this," he says conversationally.  "If I were going to manipulate you, it certainly wouldn't be to create a weapon to save the world."
Dean frowns.  "Huh?"
"I would do it to please myself," he continues.  "I wonder that I didn't think of it before."
Dean's breath quickens.  "How would you..." He pauses, wetting his lips.  "How?"
"Seduce you, of course," he answers, and feels him shiver.  "I would have you in every way, any way that I pleased.  Everything I knew, I would have taught you.  I would have enjoyed it very much, and you would have enjoyed it, too."
Dean sucks in a breath.  "I...."
"I'd keep you in my bed, unseen by any eyes but my own," he whispers.  "I'd never let you leave.  Feed you, bathe you, watch you sleep, and fuck you when you woke up; you'd deny me nothing.  I'd keep you, and you'd let me, because you'd want me to."
This time, Dean doesn't answer, green eyes wide.
"It's far too late now, of course," he continues, "but we could pretend.  If you wish."
After a few long moments, Dean nods jerkily. "Yeah, we could--we can do that."
"You'll let me do with you as I will?" he asks, and Dean nods.  "Yes or no: verbal confirmation is required."
"Yeah," Dean answers huskily.  "Anything you want."
Castiel reaches for the nearest pillow, lifting Dean's head and tucking the pillow beneath it, taking a moment to smooth the tangles in Dean's hair.  "It is said," he says conversationally, "that obedience is a virtue and virtue, of course, is its own reward."  Dean nods vaguely, tongue darting out to lick his lower lip.  "However, I have no objection to offering more tangible benefits for your obedience.  I'm going to fuck you with my fingers."  Dean inhales sharply, eyes dark.  "If you obey me, I'll suck you off while I do it.  Do you understand?"
From the abrupt jerk of Dean's hips beneath him, he does.  "Yes or no, Dean?"
"Yeah."  Dean swallows, nodding.  "Yeah, I can do--do that."
"Good."  Bracing a hand on the mattress, Castiel kisses him, catching Dean's right wrist before it can leave the bed and easing it over Dean's head to rest on the pillow. "Twenty four hours of rest," he reminds him.  "If you move it again, you won't be allowed to use either hand at all."  Anyone else, he would have offered the option of restraints, but he's curious; Dean certainly didn't need them last time, and he'd like to see what he can do when he's tested.
Dean nods.
"Good." Straightening, he rests a hand on Dean's chest.  "Don't move until I tell you that you can.  Do you understand?"
"Yes," he answers immediately.
"Good."  Easing off Dean, he retrieves the lotion and sets it beside Dean's right hip before retrieving the other pillow to put beside it.  Kneeling between his knees, Castiel reaches for the waist of his boxers.  "Lift your hips," he tells him, tugging them down his thighs and easing each leg out before dropping them off the floor.  "Spread your legs for me, Dean."  Breath quickening, Dean does, heels sliding against the bedcover.  "I'll tell you when to stop."
Just short of the limits of Dean's flexibility, he stops him, easing a hand beneath each knee and bending them, giving Dean time for his feet to find purchase on the quilt before sitting back on his heels again simply to look at him.  The view is utterly breathtaking, pale burnished to gold in the warm yellow light, perfectly still despite the flush spreading across the high cheekbones from his appraisal.
"'A thing of beauty is a joy for ever'," he murmurs, and Dean's eyes darken. "'Its loveliness increases; it will never pass into nothingness.'"
Stretching out above him, Castiel kisses him, pleased when Dean's right hand remains on the pillow while the fingers of his left hand curl warmly around the back of his neck.  Nipping the tip of Dean's tongue, he presses a kiss to his chin, skimming up his jaw before sucking a kiss against the ultra-sensitive skin just below his ear.  Dean's fingers tighten, breath catching, and licking the warm skin, he follows the strong pulse of his jugular down to the soft skin between neck and shoulder, feeling the quickening beat of his heart against his tongue.
Dean inhales sharply as he sinks his teeth into the tender skin without hesitation, fingers sliding into his hair in silent entreaty: more. Tracing the shape of his teeth with his tongue, he presses an open mouth kiss there, sucking until he can taste the iron pooling just beneath the skin.
As yet, he hasn't had the opportunity to explore Dean's body as much as he wishes (he suspects, however, that all of time would not be long enough to do it), and this is no different; Dean's patience is not what anyone sane would call 'in existence' and his own seems to vanish entirely every time he touches him.  The taste of him is addictive; he shapes the sharp bones of his collar with his mouth, lingering on the warm, silky skin of his chest, lean muscle shifting beneath his lips, and traces the outline of the anti-possession tattoo with the tip of his tongue before turning his attention to the hard, dark nipples demanding attention.  Dean's cock slides wetly against his belly, leaving a line of cooling pre-come as moves lower, mouthing the hard, almost concave planes of his stomach.  Sucking a kiss just above the navel, he looks up to see Dean watching him, lips parted and eyes glazed.
Concentrate, he reminds himself firmly.  
Biting on the sharp edge of his hip, Castiel sits back on his heels and reaches for the second pillow. "Lift your hips."  Sliding the pillow beneath them, he arranges Dean to his satisfaction, then reaches for the lotion, pouring it into his left palm to warm it while watching for any sign of uncertainly or distress.  The former will be easily dispelled by action; the latter will be more difficult, as Dean will resent any effort at reassurance, or for that matter Castiel even noticing that it exists.
"You're doing very well," he says, slowly slicking two fingers on his right hand.  "That deserves a reward." 
He doesn't wait for a response; leaning forward, he takes the head of Dean's cock in his mouth, and Dean makes an inarticulate sound, left hand knotting in his hair, but his hips are perfectly still.  He fights the urge to take all of him at once--such things aren't to be rushed no matter how tempting--running his tongue behind the head while sliding his thumb down Dean's inner thigh and stroking wet fingers over the thin skin behind his balls before circling lazily around his tightly furled hole.
Dean tenses (expected), but Castiel does nothing else, allowing him to adjust to the concept of penetration in imminent fact instead of merely in theory.  For in this he has patience and in full measure.  Taking a quick breath, he slowly takes Dean's cock into his throat, and Dean's hand tightens as he breathes, "Cas."
Running the tip of his finger against the clenched muscle, he rubs gently over it as he pulls back to suck luxuriously on the swollen head, ripe and sweet against his tongue, and feels the slight relaxation when he presses the tip of his finger against it.
"Just.  Do it," Dean says in a terrible facsimile of his normal voice--husky, thick, how sex sounds; he could listen to Dean like this all day (and one day, he'll do just that).  His hips almost jerk, then still by pure will, and Castiel lets the head of his cock pop out of his mouth.  "Let me...." Dean sucks in a breath, obviously searching for words.  "Just...."
"You can move," he says, and almost immediately, Dean shoves a heel more deeply into the bed and pushes against his finger, taking it to the second knuckle with a sharply indrawn breath.  
"Oh," he breathes in surprise, stilling, and Castiel leans down to press a kiss against the trembling skin of his lower belly, watching Dean's expression change to uncertain pleasure.
Feeling Dean make an effort to relax, he slides his finger more deeply into the tight heat of his body until the tip brushes against the tiny nub of his prostate, and Dean breathes in sharply.  "Yeah, that...yeah."
Sitting up, he reaches for Dean's left hand and slowly licks the palm wet.  "I want to watch you touch yourself," he says, wrapping Dean's hand around the base of his cock and squeezing. "Now."
Lips parting further, Dean licks them before nodding, adjusting his grip nervously.  He's almost clumsy at first, jerking to a startled stop when Castiel pulls his finger almost out before easing it back inside and brushing almost incidentally against his prostate, shivering.  The next easy slide, Dean moves into it, adjusting the rhythm on his cock to Castiel's finger.  Slowly, carefully, he increases the pace, and instinctively, Dean matches it, green eyes half-closed in concentration; he's beautiful.
He's so entranced by the sight of Dean losing himself in pleasure that he almost forgets what he's doing.  Sliding his finger out (much to Dean's vocal displeasure), he slicks two of them again.
"I’m going to add another finger."  He rests a hand on Dean's hip before pushing the first back in for a few long strokes that make Dean curse before adding the second, patiently working open the tight rim first and confining himself to slow, shallow thrusts, enough for Dean to feel the difference without letting him try to take them both fully, not yet.  Dean tenses at the stretch, but he doesn't stop, hand slick and wet with pre-come as well.
The tight, hot grip of Dean's ass is almost as good as watching Dean jerk himself off; it's an effort to keep his concentration, ignore the hot flicker of heat traveling down his spine.  To distract himself, he presses his mouth against the soft skin of Dean's inner thigh, sucking a series of kisses until reaching the thickly corded muscle beneath the thin skin where thigh meets groin.  Dean grunts softly as Castiel slides his tongue over it, the barest hint of invitation in the lift of his hips against his restraining hand.  He's never turned down one of those in his life; licking a circle, he sinks his teeth into the warm flesh.
"Christ," Dean groans as Castiel starts to suck. "Gonna.  Feel that one."
The tightness around his slowly thrusting fingers abruptly gives, so quickly they slide halfway inside. Lifting his head, he meets Dean's eyes, noting the tell-tale concentration beneath the glaze, thighs starting to tremble.
"Don't come."  With a grimace, Dean's hand stills, and he starts to let go of his cock. "I didn't say stop."
Immediately, Dean grasps his cock again; he's very close. "Cas, please--"
"If you can't obey me, tell me now," he interrupts.  "And I'll stop."
For a moment, he's not sure Dean can, but squeezing the base firmly, he sucks in a breath and slowly begins to stroke, hand trembling.  Castiel waits, perfectly still, until Dean picks up speed again, face twisting with the effort.
"Very good," he says softly.  Dean cuts off a groan when Castiel draws his fingers out, then gasps at the first rough thrust, back arching from the bed as Castiel establishes a slow rhythm for him to follow before increasing speed, fingers rubbing firmly against the prostate.  "Perfect."
Dean drops back, panting, but his hand never stops moving, thighs trembling from the strain, close but holding back; he won't push him any harder, not this time.
"Count to ten," he says, bracing a hand on the bed by Dean's hip. "And you may come."  He licks the head before adding, "Out loud." 
Before Dean can comment--provided he has the breath, of course--Castiel eases Dean's hand from his cock and takes it down his throat.  And waits.
"One," Dean gasps, and Castiel slides his mouth up his cock as he pulls his fingers almost out, sucking the head as he flexes his fingers at the sensitive opening.  "T-two."
Dean curses as he takes his cock, thrusting firmly and rubbing over the prostate.  "Three.  Four."  He's learning. "F.  Five."  In reward, Castiel tongues the sensitives area just below the head, and Dean chokes on "Six."  Leaving Dean to his count, Castiel selects a faster rhythm, feeling Dean starting to tremble.  "Sev.  Seven."  Dean twists helplessly against the sheets, and Castiel sucks the head idly, licking it clean, before going back down.  "Eight."  Castiel twists his fingers on the downstroke and Dean makes a broken sound.  "Nine!"
Stroking down Dean's thigh, he listens to Dean panting, nearly inarticulate, and then, barely a breath, "Ten."
He feels the head swell, Dean arching with an indrawn breath that slurs his name almost beyond recognition, and takes the first burst down his throat and eases back until just the head is in his mouth, the bitter-sweet taste flooding his mouth as he sucks, drawing it out until Dean collapses onto the bed.  Swallowing, Castiel waits for Dean to soften before he sits back, wiping his lips as he eases his fingers free of the tight grasp of Dean's body.
"Don't move," he says softly, and Dean's eyes slit open, barely a glimmer of glazed green.  Bracing a hand on the mattress, he shifts to straddle Dean's chest, sliding his thumb down the stubbled jaw before sliding it in his mouth, still slick with Dean's come. "I want to come on your face."
There's enough of the lotion on his right hand to make it easy; sliding two fingers in Dean's mouth, he shoves down the loose sweatpants enough to take out his cock and slowly strokes himself, breath catching when Dean starts to suck his fingers, tongue sliding between them, wet and soft, and his concentration shatters.  All at once, he's aware of the heavy, growing tightness in his groin, the heat crawling down his spine; the touch of his own hand is almost overwhelming.
"Very good," he breathes unsteadily, speeding up his strokes; just the memory of Dean's hole tight around his fingers would be enough, but watching Dean suck like he's imagining it's his cock is inspiring.  Thumb sliding around the head almost frantically, it's only a few strokes before he pulls his fingers from Dean's wet mouth and comes.
It's several long moments before he can think enough to be relieved he didn't collapse on top of Dean.  Careful, he slides to the bed beside him, still shaking, an aftershock rippling through him at the sight of his come on Dean's pretty, flushed face, green eyes half-closed, his right hand on the pillow, and long legs still spread wide.
"Beautiful," he rasps, and Dean's lips stretch in a faint smile.  Pushing himself up, he wipes a thumb across Dean's cheek and slips it between the parted lips, watching Dean suck it clean.  He takes care of the rest himself, feeling Dean shiver with every brush of his tongue, licking away every trace of his come before kissing him again and Dean's tongue slide against over his, following the taste.
Sitting up, Castiel brushes a final kiss against his lips, then reaches for the pillow under Dean's hips. "Lift up," he murmurs, and dreamily, Dean obeys.  He eases Dean's legs to the bed himself, slow and careful, then pauses to mark each forming bruise, red already darkening to purple, before retrieving the extra blanket from the foot of the bed and drawing it over Dean against the chill of the room and sliding in beside him.  
Without prompting, Dean turns into his arms, burying his face against the warm cotton of his t-shirt with a sigh.  Stroking back the sweaty hair, he closes his eyes, sliding his fingers up and down his spine. 
"Very good," he whispers against his hair in dramatic understatement.  "Take all the time you like."
An hour and a half, two glasses of water, a thorough (and extremely fun) clean up, and a trip to the bathroom later, Dean finds himself stretched comfortably on his stomach in the center of the bed, still naked (because Cas), blankets and sheet pooling around his waist in concession to the temperature (again, because Cas).  He's just tired enough to be against moving, but not quite tired enough to sleep.  There's multiple points of soreness, a sharp burn when he moves his left leg (reason obvious), and an odd awareness of a not-quite-soreness in the area of his ass.
Adjustment, right: in his ass.  He checks for any potential weirdness (Fingers.  In his ass.) just in case, but yeah, he's as okay with this after the fact as he was enthusiastic during.  To be sure, though, they should definitely do that again, like soon.  Repetition, always useful.
Also okay with: being the center of Cas's undivided attention, in which his only job is to lie there and let Cas ply him with water, blankets, warm, wet washcloths, and lots of petting.  And he doesn't even have to be dying, feverish, Croat-infected, or with the worst cold in history to get it; it's great.
"Dean?" Cas asks solemnly, and Dean slits his eyes open, waiting for it.  "How are you feeling?"
Only Cas.  "Not bad," he says after enough of a pause to make his point.  Cas roll his eyes, but noticeably the stroking doesn't stop.  "So that keep me in bed forever thing--that's still on the table, right? I'm saying, you want to go dark side, I'm here for you."
Cas makes a face like yeah, he's kind of regretting that lack of Machiavellian strategy in their lives, too.  "I wouldn't survive a week," he admits, nails sliding up the back of his neck in little trails of warmth.  "In fact, it's very possible if we were in Chitaqua right now, not here with regular death-defying distractions, I would be very close to a stroke."
Dean summons just enough energy to look dubious and hopes to God he's not flushing.  "Scheduled. Orgies."
"That was different," Cas argues.  "This is more like...puberty.  Again."
"You didn't go through puberty."
"Imagine, if you will, everything that had until that point been suppressed all becoming active at once, but in an adult body that had--technically speaking--never actually experienced it before, as this was one was the one my Father remade."  Cas's expression changes to vague suspicion, adding darkly, "Though He might have considered this rather amusing.  My Father's sense of humor can be questionable."
Talk about non-sequitur.  "Catch me up?"
Cas sighs, looking pained.  "Do you remember when I was--unhappy with you. It was a very long time ago, I told you sex with humans was...."
"A degradation," Dean says helpfully. Sure, water under the bridge, but not like he can't still see the river.  "Barely."
Cas wrinkles his nose.  "That, yes.  Millennia ago--and I mean many of them--I might have been somewhat...judgmental...regarding the demands of the flesh.  It all seemed so ridiculous."
Dean might just die right now from not being surprised.  "Really."
"Pride goeth before the fall," he quotes glumly. "And chastity before the demands of the libido.  It's...balance, I suppose."
Dean nods: Cassiel, the karma and the balance.  "So punished with sex; wouldn't have called that one from God."
"Punishment only teaches you not to do something," Cas answers slowly.  "It's only effective as a deterrent, and those have their place.  My Father's lessons...more often than not, their purpose is to teach you what you should do and why you should want to."
"That," Dean says states, burying his skepticism deep enough that Cas doesn't see it, "is even weirder."  It works; Cas snorts into the pillow, and Dean flexes his right hand lightly; it feels stiff, but about a thousand times better than it's been in days.
Tucking his left arm under his head, he lets out a contented breath as Cas scratches gently just below his hairline, followed by his lips, a barely-there warm brush that trails down to beneath his ear.  "What time is it, anyway?"
"An hour until midnight," Cas breathes against his skin, and Dean doesn't argue, though his body tells him it's gotta be at least three in the morning; as it turns out, that kind of thing happens when someone fucks with time.  "It was roughly five hours in semi-suspension."
"So outside the barrier it's what, five hours later than now?"  
"No, she pulled us out of time before forming a bubble and slowing it," he answers.  "When she left, she set us back inside at exactly the moment she pulled us out.  Those not affected, however, are roughly five hours younger than those who were, but..." He shrugs. "Linear time isn't constant even when not being manipulated--"
"Stop there," Dean says; he can almost understand this and he likes that.  "So it won't be--I don’t know--weird."
Cas meditates that for a few moment, leaning closer to brush a kiss against the back of his shoulder.  "I'm not entirely sure I know what qualifies as weird any longer," he admits, lips moving against his skin.  
"I mean," Dean persists, because he has a reason for this, "will everyone give you a migraine if you look at them wrong because they're--whatever I do to you."
"Oh." Cas lifts his head, meeting Dean's eyes.  "Vera."
That's where he was going with this, yeah. "When the goddess left, she looked at me--same look on your face when you first saw me, but less pot and more vertigo."
Pressing more closely against Dean's side, Cas folds his arm under his head. "That was the lingering effects of short-term possession, that's all. Much like her sudden acquisition of Hindi, though that she might actually retain, since the addition to her language centers wouldn't be considered damage."
"Free gift with possession?" Dean snorts, settling more comfortably, aware of Cas watching him.  "Spit it out already."
There's a brief pause.  "Why did you ask me to leave you at the fire tonight?"
Dean knew he wouldn't get away with that, so it's not like he's surprised: Dean Winchester, infer self-torment.  "How many people did Dean shoot when they were infected?" 
Castiel doesn't check his slow stroke down the length of Dean's spine.  "Fifteen.  That I'm aware of."
"Twenty-six."  Absently, Dean flexes the fingers on his right hand against the mattress.  "Ten of 'em, I was holding the gun, but I'm the one that gave the order for the rest; they're all mine.  Before or after they change, this how it's always gonna end, either with a needle or a gun, I get it.  I just thought...."
Cas waits.
"Harder," Dean says finally, looking away.  "I thought it'd be harder. Five months ago, I couldn't have done it--I probably would have tried and stopped anyone who tried.  Yesterday--the only thing I felt when we were done was relief I didn't choke."
It doesn't take him any time now to work out Cas's expression before he says the words. "I'm sorry. If I could have--"
"I'm not."  That's the part that's been bothering him, and saying it out loud--yeah.  Like a lot of things, it's not as bad as it sounded in his head. "They deserved someone who could get the job done.  I don't want to be the guy who makes 'em suffer because it'll make me feel bad to end it."  The hand on his back starts to stroke again, which Dean takes as he said that right; it doesn't happen often, so he'll enjoy it.  "Only thing I regret is I didn't go get the bodies myself.  Should have been the first thing I did when--"
"Dean--"
"--Andy was gone," he finishes, and that's easier, too.  "I saw you out there--mano e mano with a goddamn Hellhound--because I didn't get my shit together and finish what I started."
"Technically speaking," he admits, resting his cheek on Dean's upper arm, "that part wasn't a facet of the original plan." Dean snorts: surprise.  "How long were you--"
"Got there just in time to see for myself exactly what Chuck was talking about when he said you weren't faster than a bullet," he answers wryly.  "Just fast enough not to be in front of the barrel when they're about to pull the trigger.  Or a Hellhound trying to rip out you heart and you getting some brand-new scars for your collection of all the ways you worked out how to only get non-fatal wounds."
Cas's expression is all math right now.  "How did you get there in time--"
"How'd you figure out what we were doing outside the walls and what you needed to do?"  And waits.
That Cas didn't notice doesn't surprise him, not anymore; it makes sense. If there's one thing he's figured out about Cas, he isn't one to question good things in his life due to the sheer novelty.  Sleep, food, being able to tell when your best friend/future SO/current SO is feverish, sick, awake, in need of attention, running for his life and needing him to do something, those things are things that Cas likes (or at least finds really useful).  Dean, on the other hand, questions his good fortune right into the goddamn ground, so yeah, he noticed; he's got to make sure it keeps happening.
"How long..." Cas trails off uncertainly, like maybe he's expecting Dean to abruptly react badly or something, which yeah, only Cas.
"I don't remember a lot about when they brought us in after you made the wall," he answers.  "Vera said she could tell how well the drugs worked when you went down, because that's when I stopped fighting."  Cas is still absorbing that when he adds carelessly, "It's not like that anymore.  Stopped dropping when you woke up, though, been like this since."  It's settled, he thinks, examining that Cas-shaped space again, so familiar now its effortless. 
(And he can't prove it, but sometimes, he thinks it likes the attention, like maybe it would have kept dropping if Dean hadn't concentrated on it, trying to keep it from fading.  Sure, that sounds crazy, but he's not wrong, either.)
"I didn't think about it," Cas says distractedly, and he just stops himself from grinning: of course he didn't. "When you were outside the walls, it--seemed the logical conclusion. I didn't question why."
Pretty much what he thought, yeah. "All I had to do was get to the door; I knew you'd take care of the rest."  Lifting his right arm, he slings it over Cas's shoulders, drawing him closer.
"Why didn't you tell me?" 
He shrugs; because Cas doesn't question what he likes but gets really worried when Dean does. It's not that Dean won't argue him down, but why rush to the argument part?
"This wasn't part of--what we agreed this would do," he starts, which is Dean's cue to assemble something half-assed; sure, Cas will argue, but this isn't going to be a hard sell.  "Dean, if you--"
Slinging his right arm over Cas's shoulders, Dean tugs him closer and stops the words, shivering at the memory of the taste of himself--of both of them--in Cas's mouth.  The flicker of want across his nerves is enough to tell him dawn sex is in their future.  Maybe something new; sure, unlike Cas, Dean has a working gag reflex, but hey, he's heard good things about practice and he should see what he can do right now anyway.
"I know the spiel," Dean murmurs against his mouth.  "Nothing's changed.  Answer's still yes."
Cas fails at glaring.  "You also offer your most dangerously useful body fluids to anyone, no questions asked."
Dean laughs softly. "Nah, just to you," he breathes.  "Anytime you want."
They're both nearly asleep when Dean remembers something that's been bothering him.  "So you wouldn't rescue me?"
There's an impression of movement against his back, arm tightening around his waist.  "What?"
"From the fey women," he clarifies.  "You'd just leave me there with a lot of disappointed--well, not a lot, but some--fairies?  Wouldn't even try to rescue me?"
And waits; it's going to be good, he can tell.
"I'd give them one chance to release you," Cas answers without hesitation.  "Then I'd set C4 covered with rock salt and powdered cold iron around their sacred tree and in a counterclockwise spiral reaching to two point three miles using the tree as the center point.  After going a safe distance, I'd detonate them in sequence from the tree, causing a chain reaction that would obliterate the tree and the bindings on their home beneath-the-earth, which would probably kill half of them outright from sheer shock.  The rest I'd execute by knife, use their blood to write my name on the court floor as a warning to others who might encroach on my territory, and then retrieve you. Of course."
"Of course," Dean echoes, unable to stop grinning.  Great Fey War, triumphant victor: Cas. Of course.  "And me--I'd be on the couch for a while?"
Dean waits out the thoughtful pause. "I'm certain the slaughter would have worked out my feelings regarding your infidelity.  Perhaps a discussion after we got home, but we'd both be rather tired.  Perhaps you could make me breakfast."
Dean takes a deep breath, then another, but no; burying his face in the pillow, he laughs like he'll never stop.
@@@@@@
--Day 157--

He still wakes up in stages these days.
It's faster now--faster than ever--but it still happens, and it's like this: the cocoon of warmth around him, the give of the mattress beneath him, the heaviness of the bedding over him, the pillow beneath his head, the body stretched out against his back, this is a bed, this is a room, good so far.
Dean.  That's always first. There's something new, though, not even two weeks old: next is Cas.
Dean, Cas, Chitaqua, brownies, fever, Ichabod, party, emergency, their headquarters, their room, their bed: okay, got it.  Right arm, still there; right hand aches, but it's a good ache; he can feel the faint strain in the muscles of his inner thighs from being held open that far for that long last night.  Cas didn't push past his comfort zone, but he was right on top of it, and his muscles are reporting to say he should either do that less or stretch a lot more.  He's going to say the latter is in his future and hope to God everyone pretends they can't guess why he suddenly wants to be more flexible.
Dean, Cas, here, in their bed: awesome.  Burying a grin in his pillow, Dean lets the rest filter in however it wants; he got the important stuff down.  Dawn is just starting to peek through the small opening in balcony's curtains, spreading loops of grey-pink light across the walls and spilling onto the floor.  It's quiet, no one's screaming (yet), and there's no check-out at ten 
Safe, his mind offers up warily, testing the concept and finding it good: yeah, that, too.
He feels a press of warm lips against the back of his neck, the arm around his waist tightening.  "Good morning," Cas whispers against his skin, sending a shiver through his nerves that's echoed with the scrape of stubble as Cas works his way to his shoulder.  "How are you feeling?"
"Good," Dean says lazily, turning his head enough to breathe the last word against Cas's lips.  Reaching up and back to tangle his fingers in the dark hair, he slides his tongue into Cas's welcoming mouth.  He can feel Cas hard against his ass; yeah, he's not the only one.  Kicking back the blankets, he pushes back against it and catches his breath at the slide of Cas's cock, tip leaving a cooling wet streak.  "Gonna do something about that?"
Cas hand slides between his legs, pulling his left leg up--oh yeah, more stretching is definitely happening--and shifts his hips.  He forgets all about muscle strain (and everything else) when he feels Cas's cock slide between his legs, head bumping against the back of his balls. Then Cas drapes his leg over Dean's, pushing Dean's together tight for an experimental thrust that he can feel in his teeth and makes Cas shudder.
"That should work," Cas breathes in his ear right before his left hand closes over Dean's cock, and fuck yeah, that does fucking work.  He doesn't realize he even reached for Cas's other hand until he squeezes the fingers of his right hand around Cas's against the pillow.  Closing his eyes, he pushes into Cas's hand in the same slow rhythm as Cas's cock moves steadily between his legs, an electric spark every time the head bumps against the back of his balls.  Experimentally, he squeezes his thighs together on the downstroke and Cas moans against his shoulder. "Dean."
It takes a second to match everything up, but Cas is inspiring; once he has it, he sets it to automatic, concentrating on the spreading tingle, the coil of pressure low in his belly and groin, how good Cas's hand feels--holy shit, he's got a guy who doesn't have any problems with coordination first thing on the morning, thank you--thumb working expertly over the slick head on the upstroke.  Christ, he's almost dripping; this isn't gonna take long at all.  
It doesn't; Cas breaks from sucking a kiss into his shoulder with a gasp, picking up speed, and Dean's right there with him; a twist of Cas's hand, a breath, and Dean's coming hard enough to see spots dance in front of his eyes like solar flares.  Cas isn't far behind him, either, or so he assumes; a few thrusts that drag out the aftershocks, and Cas stills; the flood of liquid warmth between his legs is worth another shock all by itself.
Settled to his bones, Dean sinks into the mattress, taking the precaution of catching Cas's slick hand as it reluctantly lets go of his cock, lacing their finger together and tucking them against his belly and tightening his thighs warningly just in case Cas gets some crazy idea he should move.  He wants to keep this moment, everything about it; lock it away somewhere safe where it'll stay fresh, and when he pulls it out, it'll be like he's here again: a grey-dappled room and warm bed, and Cas's lips against the back of his neck, sleepy satisfaction and contentment infusing every breath.
"Breakfast?" Dean murmurs.  Turning his head, he feels the scratch of stubble against his jaw and cheek, stilling when Cas comes into view; post-coital Cas is something to see, sure, flushed skin and tangled hair falling in his eyes, but that's not what makes it hard to breathe.  He can remember this, sure (and he will), but he doesn't have to. He'll have more of these, a lifetime of them, to pick from.
"Dean?"
"Later, I mean." Rolling on his back, he brushes back the dark hair and smiles into the warm blue eyes.  "Come here."
Dean knows something's wrong the second he reaches the mess and looks inside.  
It's not crowded--maybe a third of Chitaqua at most along with a few of their new recruits--but most of the tables occupied are toward the kitchen, leaving a pretty fucking obvious space around where Alicia's sitting in the southeast corner.  Sure, it could be an accident, but it's also like a flashback to freshman year, high school six, when he forgot to play normal and paid for it.  Good thing he didn't have money for lunch, anyway.
Stepping back out of view, Dean stops being fifteen for a minute and tries to work out exactly what the hell is going on.  A quick count shows they're below threshold, no one looks in danger of violence--so far so good--but that just makes it weirder.  They don't need more weird; they got enough of that.
Joe comes out of the kitchen with a cup of coffee, eyes tracking the room before finding him at the door; nodding, he casually makes his way across the mess, and Dean retreats down the hall.  
When Joe joins him, the casual look vanishes, brown eyes fixing somewhere south of his face.  "Uh, Dean...." He raises his eyebrows: what?  "You got--uh, something...." He gestures toward his neck in some way that Dean assumes is supposed to make sense.
Oh, right. "Hickeys?"  Joe takes a drink from his coffee and makes a muffled sound that could be agreement. "I got laid, it was great, thanks; you should try it sometime.  Moving on, what the fuck is going on in there?"
He grimaces, lowering his cup.  "Short version or long?"
"You pick."
"Carol."  Dean starts to ask what the hell Carol has to do with it when Joe adds, "And Kat. Maybe Kyle, too, not sure yet; he's still hoping to get back in Alicia's pants, but he's gotta know his chances are zero."
Dean stares at Joe for a moment, trying to absorb the mess is, actually, doing what it looks like it's doing.  "You're fucking with me."
"Gossip makes the world go around, and the shittier the better."  Joe sighs.  "Kat's popular, and I'm pretty sure at least a couple of her visitors took her way too seriously about what Alicia did or didn't do outside the walls that led to Andy's death.  That's not the problem, though."  
For a chilling second, he wonders if Micah told Carol about Alicia.  "What?"
"What she said...." He makes a face.  "Alicia said she'd done it before, when she took care of Andy?"
Dean feels no desire to work out why he's relieved.  "Yeah.  Why?"  Then he gets it.  "Spit it out.  Isolation?"
Joe nods grimly.  "Kids.  
"Croat kids," he argues, keeping his voice low with an effort. "How the hell did anyone find out about that anyway?  Dolores won't talk, even to Vera...."  Son. Of.  A.  Bitch.  "Where's Kyle?"
"Volunteer Center," Joe says, eyes narrowing in sudden comprehension.  "Son of a bitch.  Yeah, left early: wonder why? Want me to go get him?"
Dean almost says he'll handle that himself, thanks, but a glance at the mess changes his mind. "Take your team and get him as publicly as you can, make it obvious.  Put him in an empty room here and don't tell him anything but that he's restricted to quarters."
Joe's bewildered frown changes into a grin. "I like it.  What about Kat and Carol?"
"Carol's invitation to hang out here is revoked."  Kat's a problem; she's popular and she's grieving for her dead boyfriend, and that's gonna buy her sympathy no matter what she does.  He'll worry about that later.  "Talk to Sarah, find out exactly who Kat's grief buddies have been for the last twenty-four hours."
Joe starts to look wary. "Dean, look, I get you're pissed, but you start disciplining people for what they say--"
"They can say whatever the fuck they want," he interrupts, though that's pending right now.  "What they do, different thing.  Anyway, not gonna punish them for being fucking sheep."
If anything, Joe looks even more wary.  "What are you gonna do?"
"Show 'em how not to be," he says, taking Joe's coffee and almost choking at the first taste (black, Jesus, what, would sugar kill him?) as he goes back in the mess, pausing to make sure he gets as much attention as possible before walking casually to Alicia's table and sitting down.
And is suddenly, viscerally aware of what he did last night (and this morning).  Adjustment: the gift that just keeps giving.  Not sore, exactly (he doesn't make the mistake of spreading his legs, though), but something.  With that comes the memory of Cas cleaning him up fifteen minutes ago--water restrictions mean no showers--but Dean can still smell Cas on him. A flicker of heat slides down his spine in a textbook example of so fucking not the time.  
"Dean?" Alicia says blankly; her expression is almost worth the bullshit.
Grinning, he takes another drink and pretends he likes it while scanning the plate she's barely touched.  Chorizo, potatoes, preserved tomatillos, green peppers and onions and if he's right, there's tiny bits of jalapenos in there: eggs would be nice, but hell, who needs 'em when you got that combination?  "What's up?"
Alicia puts down her fork, and he watches her eyes flicker behind him to the suddenly quiet peanut gallery.  "Nothing much." She may be an early riser, but the dark circles under her eyes tell him it wasn't by choice. "Uh, Dean, I should tell you--"
"Pick up your fork and start looking like you're enjoying breakfast," he mutters, then thinks of something. Reaching for one of her tortillas, he tugs her plate toward him and clears enough space to unroll it.  Taking her fork from her hand, he scoops a third of the mix into it, rolls it up, and shoves her plate back at her.  Then takes a tortilla himself; Alonzo may be his favorite recruit.  "Eat," he says and waits for her to warily pick it up and take a bite.  "You lied on your report about Ichabod, yeah; you worked isolation, I know; I can also do the math and I know what you had to do."
She chews like it's the only thing she has to do.
"I get why you lied about it," he continues, pitching his voice for her alone.  "Now you know you didn't have to.  You didn't do anything wrong.  Take another bite for our fucked up buddies back there.  Now."
She obeys--more from surprise than anything else, he suspects--and finishes chewing with an effort. "I would have told you," she says quietly. "Before I knew you liked kids."  She takes another bite, and Dean never realized how much an effort it is to just eat with this kind of attention on everything you do.  "I like kids, too," she breathes.  "That's why--that's why I volunteered.  Have you ever seen kids with Croat?"  He shakes his head, tamping down horror; he will, one day, and he's not looking forward to it.  "I have.  They shouldn't have to live like that, not if..."  She lowers her head before anyone can see her face crumple.  He straightens, giving her what cover he can with his body.
"Keep eating," he murmurs, taking another tortilla and waiting for her to take another grim bite.  "I’m going to get us both coffee.  Deep breath, then laugh like I just said something really funny."
He'll give her this much; she does, though he may be the only one who hears the hysteria in it.  Crossing lazily to the carafes, he smiles a dare to anyone who has the courage to back their gossip-based convictions; surprise, no one does.  He fills two cups, adding plenty of sugar and fake creamer, figuring Alicia can deal with Cas-style coffee, stops to grab more tortillas, and walks back, perfectly aware of everyone watching, the faint, uncomfortable whispers.  Like maybe everyone in the room just realized they're an average of a decade and a half past passing notes in English class; a little late, sure, but he'll take what he can get.
When he sits down, Alicia is slowly rolling another taco up because she's got the sense to know a good thing when she tastes it.
"Thanks," she says with a bright smile as she takes the cup.
"Anytime," he says, rolling his tortilla up for another delicious bite; even without butter, they're awesome.  "How long?"
"Since I came down," she answers, then takes an enthusiastic bite. 
"Anything else?"
She checks her chewing.
"Just the not-so-silent treatment or harassment?" he asks. "Alicia, you can lie if you want, but it won't change anything. I'm gonna find out--"
"I can take care of myself."  She stuffs half the goddamn taco in her mouth: bingo, that's where Cas got that shit.  Chewing rebelliously--at least she's showing less 'animal watching for headlights'--she swallows, Jesus Christ, what the hell?  "I don't need anyone to protect me."
Fuck his life, she sounds like Cas: word for word, even.  What, did the two of them fuck then discuss how competent they are or something and don't need anybody?  Actually, he can kind of see it.
"It's not your job to take care of this," he says, (quietly, but to be honest, he doesn't care if the peanut gallery hears this). "It's mine, so let me fucking do it. One question: did you tell anyone else about it?" She opens her mouth to say no. "Other than Kyle, I mean, and why the fuck are you protecting him?"
She shuts her mouth on whatever she was going to say, staring at him like she doesn't understand the question. "I'm not--"
"Yeah, you are." He thinks of Micah's answer to what Alicia would tell him if he asked her why their breakup involved weapons: she'd lie.  "You done?"  She looks at her plate in regret before nodding reluctantly.  "Good.  We're leaving; smile and look really happy about something while I take our dishes back to the kitchen."
Alicia's smile doesn't come anywhere near her eyes.  "Why?"
"We're gonna talk," he answers, sliding her plate toward him. "Either stand up now or I go get Cas, and you can have this talk with him.  You pick."
Her horror hits him like a blow; Jesus Christ, this was so much easier when the wannabe assassins weren't people he'd ever met.  People who sat at his kitchen table drinking coffee and sewed up Cas's back and helped Joe on the border.  Who in a thousand years he never would have guessed would kill anyone in cold blood.  He wouldn't have even thought she could.
Still grinning like her muscles froze that way, she stands up, handing him her empty coffee cup.  "Thanks."
Inexplicably, Haruhi, Rosario, Derek, and Vicky are already up and doing their damndest to be the best hunter bureaucrats in history.  Granted, that's not hard; they're probably also the first.
"Hey kids," he says, wondering what Cas is doing to their recruits; Haruhi's got a laptop, Rosario and Derek are doing something with manila folders and labels that he just can't wrap his mind around, and Vicky is--okay, now he feels like a voyeur watching her with that laptop.  "Take a break or something. You have breakfast yet?"
"I did," Vicky says, not looking up from the laptop screen, while the other three give him reassuring nods and actually make eye contact.  
"Okay, take everything to the next room and make sure no one comes in here," he decides, noting they all look relieved.  "Secret mission, blah blah blah, don't want any interruptions."
"Got it," Haruhi says, and in very short order, the room is clear.  
Locking the door, Dean debates only for a moment before pointing to the broken down sofa and grabbing a chair for himself.  Seating herself in the middle--smart move, the left and right sides both act like goddamn quicksand--she looks at him, expression smoothly, brightly curious, baseline Alicia; until now, he didn't realize that was something she actually practiced to get right, enough to put on at a moment's notice.  She's not doing it so well today, though; the scarred hands are locked together in her lap like they might run away if she doesn't keep a tight grip.  Or maybe she'd like to be flipping a knife.
Sitting down across from her, he starts with the first item on his list.  "Did you tell Kyle about what happened here or did he tell you he already knew?"
"I told him," she answers immediately, but he's not watching her face anymore, it won't tell him shit.  Her voice though--hesitation, just a second, and she's not lying, no, but there's something there.
"How'd he get you to talk about it?" Dean asks, picking up his cup with a casualness he doesn't feel.  "Sympathy, empathy, a few shots of whiskey...?"
"All three," she answers easily.  "Why does it matter--"
"Because I want to know whether or not he was stalking you in Ichabod before you got together," he says; that day they were digging a hole at Chitaqua, she was oblivious, but he wasn't.  If he'd known more about Kyle, even guessed...what?  Stalking Jane was still a joke, she didn't even take it seriously, but maybe, just maybe, she did; she just figured he wouldn't.  "So how sympathetic was he?  Almost like he already knew about it, knew exactly what to say, how to get you to tell him so he could make you feel better?  Come on, if you can work out what the geas does with a goddamn library book and a list of random ass stories from those incoming, you can--"
"I didn't think about it," she interrupts, and the edge in her voice tells him that pisses her off.  "Not until--not until later."
"Any chance that's why you broke up?"
She shakes her head.  "No.  It was--we fought about something else, and he said something....  Dolores locked down the infirmary to anyone not immediate family or medical personnel--or Alison and Claudia--so Kyle couldn't know the layout of the infirmary.  He mentioned the back stairs--he said I told him."
"Did you?"
"I might have," she answers carefully.  "I was drunk.  Look, it's not important--"
"It's important," he interrupts.  "Yes or no: do you think he followed you in Ichabod when you were here after the attack?"
Her expression doesn't change, but her knuckles go white, tendons standing up in sharp relief.  "I can't prove it--"
"You don't have to prove it," he says.  "Your word is enough."
She wets her lower lip, and even now, he can almost feel her fighting the automatic no; she'd lie, Micah said, like there was no doubt Dean would believe him, like there was no doubt Dean would never believe her now that Micah explained the situation.  No doubt at all.
"Yeah," she says finally, the faint quiver in her voice jerking his attention away from wondering why Micah was so surprised Dean didn't take it on faith; how many times he told people that.  And why he'd need to, come to think.  "I mean, I think--"
"That's enough for me." It's on the tip of his tongue to ask exactly how much alcohol was involved with Kyle's sympathy that night, but that's one question he knows he can't ask, not unless she wants to answer it.  That doesn't mean he's not thinking it, though, and now he can't stop.  "You told Cas that he wasn't bothering you but probably wanted to; on a guess, you set the bar on 'bothering' higher than I would, so we'll do this categorically. Is he following you around, and by that I mean, he is where you are often enough for there to be effort involved to make it happen?"
Alicia's gaze flickers to some point over his shoulder.  "I'm not sure.  If--Matt and Jody could tell you--"
"Your word is enough," he repeats.  "You don't need a single goddamn witness other than yourself.  Now, where and how often?  Volunteer Services, ended up with him getting assigned to the same place you were?"
"Yes.  Maybe."  Her gaze returns to him, wary. "I'm not sure. We all eat here, and...it's meal times.  When I go on or off duty, but you know, our schedules might match, so I don't...I don't know. He doesn't do anything," she adds quickly, like she's forming a character defense for someone not worth the mud on her boots.  "He doesn't even come near me, even to say hi.  Just...."
"Makes sure you see him watching you."  She looks away, and yeah, that matches what Cas told him.  "For reference; he cleared my bar for 'bothering' like he learned to fly just on spec. He doesn't have to break into your room and hold a knife to you throat for it to count."
"I can handle it," she says, and wow, how unsurprising is that?  "It's just Kyle."
"It doesn't matter if you can," he says patiently.  "You shouldn't have to.  Is that why you didn't report it?"
The blue eyes study him for a long moment; that's one of the reasons she didn't report it. She'd lie; he bets he's not even close to the first person Micah told that.  "If I did," like maybe he'll just ignore this, "what will happen to him?"
"Cas's decision," he says, and she stiffens.  "But he asks me, he's out of Chitaqua."
She shakes her head.  "No, not for me."
"Alicia--"
"Not when I won't be there anyway," she continues brutally, eyes fixed on the wall behind him, and honest to God, he would have rather she punched him.  "Dean, it doesn't matter, just--let it go."
"It matters," he says quietly, and her gaze jumps back to him. "Not for yourself, fine, but it's not about you." That's a lie, but whatever, at least she's not arguing.  "I let it go, what do you think happens the next time Kyle hooks up with someone?  What if it's not someone in Chitaqua?"
She frowns, then swallows.
"Someone who can't handle it," he continues relentlessly.  "Someone who might not even know how, especially when he wears a gun and belongs to a scary militia and she doesn't.  You were on patrol, come on; until Harlin, no one would even speak to us.  We got lucky with the Alliance, and that's not gonna happen again.  We're going to have to prove ourselves--to the Alliance, to every town, every goddamn day.  Caesars' wife, Alicia; we can't afford the appearance of shitty behavior, and Kyle...."
"Yeah," she agrees, and he thinks maybe she actually does.
"But it doesn't matter if he was the nicest guy on earth and you're the super special exception that unearthed his creep alter ego," Dean continues.  "He did it to you, and that's enough."  She doesn't argue, which is something.  "That goes for what happened this morning, too. Now, was there harassment?"
"No, you saw it," she says grudgingly.  "That's all, I--Dean, I brought it on myself."
He gives himself a few seconds to control his voice before he says, "You don't say.  I gotta hear this."
"I went to talk to Carol yesterday."
Jesus Christ, even Cas wasn't masochistic enough to go find people to make him miserable, or at least, he made them just as miserable in return.  "And then put a compulsion on her and Kat to do this?  Didn't we learn from the geas how that ends badly?"
Alicia gives him a filthy look, but hey, it's a genuine, honest to God reaction; he likes those. "I just had to--it's private, okay?  She was pissed, and with Andy--Kat's still, you know--"  She glares at him.  "Why are you doing this?"
"Because I'm your leader and--"
"You know what I mean," she interrupts.  "Why are you--after I told you...."  Thankfully, she trails off.
"What the fuck does that have to do with anything?" he exclaims before he can stop himself, and Alicia leans back, eyes wide. "You didn't deserve Kyle stalking you because he's an asshole, and you sure as fuck don't deserve shit for doing your duty.  Now, can you say you're reporting so I can get Cas's breakfast before he gets up and comes looking for me?"
She opens her mouth, but what comes out is, "You take Cas breakfast in bed?"
"Yeah, why?"  He wishes he'd brought his coffee so he could take a casual drink.  "He needs to eat."
She blinks at him, but he watches her hands this time.  Her nails are bitten nearly to the quick, but in the bright light of the room, he can see every scar; thick white ridges and thinner, nearly invisible lines, thick calluses on the side and pad of her thumb and first finger and surprisingly, on the pad of the middle finger as well.  Throwing knives: she works with thumb and first as well as middle: insurance against losing the use of--or losing altogether--her first finger.  He'd bet her fourth finger's got them, too, and he bets she's just as accurate no matter which she uses for a throw.
He keeps his focus on her hands, keeps his mouth shut, keeps his expression neutral; if he has to do it for her, he will, but he wants her to have first option on it.
Abruptly, she loosens her tight grip, flexing her fingers absently against the couch.  "Dean...."
He meets her eyes and waits.
"Dean," she repeats more strongly, eyes watchful.  "I'd like to report that Kyle's been stalking me since we broke up and maybe before.  If I'm not in my room or with my team, he finds a way to be nearby where I can see him; this includes the infirmary when I'm on duty, when I'm on assignment, and when I'm off duty.  I saw him twice when I met Cathy for breakfast at the general mess, he was across the street last night when I went to Karl and Pedro's building for dinner, and outside Naresh and Suma's when I was there for lunch three days ago."  
Dean nods.  "Just watching you?"  Not anything else, he means; watching is shitty all on its own, it sure as hell doesn't need dressing.
"Until I see him," she answers slowly. "Then--then he goes away.  Sometimes."
"And the talk about what happened when you were in Ichabod a few weeks ago?"
She takes a breath.  "He's the only one I told.  Unless Dolores told Carol--and she didn't--Kyle is the only one who could have told Carol and Kat." Then, "But to be fair to Kyle, he says stupid shit when he's drunk, and he may not have--meant to have it spread like this."  She adds, "Unless we count Vera, which I don't.  Only person she would tell is Cas, and he'd tell you, which is how you found out, I guess.  When?  Had to be yesterday; you would have talked to me already if it was earlier, but yesterday was a little too busy."
Dean fights back a chuckle; what can you do when you're sitting with a woman who actually is the smartest person in every room she's ever been in?  "We guessed about isolation: kids was yesterday, though. I would love to know how you do that."
Any other time, she'd grin at him outright, but he can still see the glint in her eyes.  He can't get over how much she enjoys doing that, how people react when she does.  Like it's still new.
"I'll hand it from here on out," he says.
She nods. "Should I--I mean, other people saw him, and I can--"
"I don't need anyone or anything else, just you," he says firmly, and for some reason adds, "You get you--if there's anything else you want to tell me, I'll listen.  Whatever it is."  Her expression doesn't change.  "It matters, Alicia."
She looks at him unblinkingly for a long moment.  "Okay. Good to know.  Can I--uh...."
Yeah, that wasn't going to happen, assuming there's anything (assuming that anything is--something, whatever). "Yeah," he says, then frowns as she stands.  "Hold up.  Where're your weapons?"
She looks at him like he's crazy.  "What?"
He motions toward the lack of weapons belt.  "You're unarmed: why?"
"Under the circumstances, I thought...." She hesitates, finishing uncertainly, "...that I shouldn't be armed, you know?"
"Did I tell you not to arm yourself?" Alicia obediently shakes her head. "Did I remove you from your position as a team leader?"  She shakes her head again but looks in danger of maybe asking him why that is; he keeps talking.  "Then you will go upstairs, arm yourself, and be here for the meeting with the team leaders.  Do you understand?"
"Yes, sir," she says immediately.  
"Dismissed," he says as he gets to his feet.  Following her out of the room (and waving the kids back in to do their thing), he pauses at the sight of her at the front desk, her back to him.  Jeremy looks worried (but not condemning, points to Vera, Joe, and Cas's parenting) but Joelle, who still has her coat on and must have just arrived, looks upset as she removes a thick knitted (not orange, he notices) hat, revealing her hair is covered beneath the folds of a scarf.
Quietly, he approaches them, trying to see what Alicia's looking at: a note.  "Alicia?"
Joelle and Jeremy both jump, but Alicia doesn't move, lowering the paper and crumpling it in one hand before stuffing it in her jeans pocket.  "Just Cathy canceling lunch," she says lightly, smiling at him.  "I'm going to go see if Matt and Jody are up; not morning people, very cranky wakers, you know what I mean?"
He nods, watching her bounce toward the stairs like there's nothing on her mind but the day ahead, then looks at Joelle, who tosses her coat to Jeremy.  "You scheduled this morning?"
"Mom said I should come early today," she says, holding his eyes.  "And make sure people saw me.  She's taking a second shift at the infirmary this morning, but she checked in with me so I'd...so I'd know."
Cathy was in the infirmary last night, and so was Carol when they took her back.  "Whole infirmary?"
"Yeah," she says, nose wrinkling.  "Mom said she can't figure out how anyone even found out, but she and Dolores are handling it.  Isolation is privileged information, Dolores is the only one that even knows who...." She looks helpless.  "Dolores already called in half the staff and started ripping them apart individually and in groups, but no one knows--"
"I do," he interrupts.  "What else?"
"I was afraid you'd ask that," she answers, looking at Jeremy.  "It's so stupid, Dean, it doesn't even make sense."
She really doesn't want to say it.  "Joelle--"
"People are asking if--outside the walls," she says slowly, and right there, he knows what she's going to say.  "They're saying you...that we--we should have checked them ourselves, that there was no proof they were infected.  And that's why Alison got Callisto to clear burning them so fast, so no one would know."  She makes a disgusted sound.  "Like I said, it's stupid."
Callisto lost her cousin outside the walls.  "Do Alison and Callisto know yet?"
"Yes and I don't know," she answers.  "But--mortuary services is open for business, which is weird this early when nothing's going on.  I noticed on the way over and figured you'd want to know."
Despite himself, Dean grins. "Good work."
"Good enough to start training when I turn eighteen?" she asks, and though she's smiling, she's serious.  "Seven months from now, in case that's relevant."
"Your mom will kill me."
"My mom," Joelle answers, "is training to qualify for Amanda's next class.  She and a few other are working on better ways to hide weapons in our headscarves."  She points to her own, a patterned blue-green to match her thermal, as intricately folded as origami. "Mom asked me to test this one today; ask me what I’m carrying."
Dean takes a moment to visualize Maimouna--who is about five-five and looks as delicate as a porcelain doll--gutting a Croat and then remembers she's worked patrol; it's probable she actually has.  "A stiletto?"
"Two," she says proudly; Dean's guess was literally that, and staring at her scarf, he tries and fails to work out how.  "Point behind my right ear, the other at the back of my neck."
Behind them, the door opens, and it says no good things that he just stops himself from going for his gun.  He almost regrets it; Joe's expression is grim, and Kyle's....
He may know why Callisto is up this early.  "What happened?"
"There was a catalyst incident in the YMCA," he says, and Dean takes in Kyle's disheveled appearance.  "They didn't even know it was happening until--anyway, Claudia and Naresh are handling it.  Five dead, and they ask us to keep Kyle here and Naresh will come to question him."
Kyle's blank expression says nothing good.  "Kyle?"
"I was helping deliver clean sheets," he says hollowly.  "Next thing I know, I got eight people around me saying Chitaqua killed people and they...." He trails off, and following his gaze, Dean sees the blood on his coat and hands.
He glances at Joe, who nods: the five dead got that way by way of Kyle's gun.  "Kyle, look at me."  The dark eyes come up, pupils nearly swallowing the iris; he's in shock.  "It's not your fault."
Kyle opens his mouth, but nothing comes out, and his eyes go right back to his hands..
"Leah, you and the rest of the team, check him over in the infirmary, get him something to drink, and I'll--" He's not sending Alicia, hell no.  "Work out what's going on.  Quiet room on the second floor, and stay with him, okay?"
"Got it," she says, glancing at Joe, who nods genially.
"And me?" he asks when they're gone.
"Go to Admin, you know the drill.  I'm gonna go get Cas." The morning couldn't even wait until after breakfast, Jesus.  "Make it fast.  We'll be in the Situation Room."
Dean takes the precaution of using the back stairs--no idea why, it just feels right--carrying a carafe of coffee and a foil-wrapped bundle of breakfast tacos, sugar and creamer in his pockets, since this is not going to be a leisurely breakfast in bed after all but goddamn it, Cas is gonna get to eat.
Mindlessly, he jogs the last flight and shoves the heavy door open with his shoulder, and is almost ten steps into the white room before he realizes where he is: fuck this goddamn building.  Turning around, he eyes the place the door was without favor: he really doesn't have time for this shit.
Seeing the couch he brought in last time, he deposits everything on it for now, searching all the walls for another way out; nothing, what a surprise.  Taking a deep breath, he turns to face the nearest wall and waits; might as well get this over with.
Ink slithers over the plaster, forming four pictures: Demeter, eyes alight in rage, one hand outstretched toward the dry, barren earth, the red-orange sun huge in the sky and beating mercilessly on the piles of skeletal bodies piled around her; dry-eyed and bitterly satisfied, Clytemnestra standing over Agamemnon in his bloody bath with an axe in her hand; Hecuba smiles, holding the eyes of the dead sons of the King of Thracia resting on her palm, their lifeless bodies at her feet; Medea, laughing wildly while her dragon-drawn chariot carryies her from the corpse of Jason' new-wed wife, body surrounded by the dismembered bodies of her own children.
And one more, as stylized as the first four: a younger Cornelia seated in an elegant sitting room, an adolescent Gaius standing at his mother's shoulder looking grim, a much younger, painfully thin Sempronia on the rug at her mother's feet with Claudia Pulchera beside her, all in the unrelieved black of mourning. Sempronia's head rests in her mother's lap, dark hair loose beneath her mother's hand, and Dean hisses at the sight of her tearstained face: one eye blackened, mouth swollen and bruised, shoulders hunched and stiff beneath Claudia's comforting arm.
Following Cornelia's gaze, he glimpses Publius just inside the frame on the far right, and in his hand is an unsheathed knife, blade gleaming silver.
Moving to the next picture, he sees Cornelia sitting at her desk and holding a piece of paper.  A man with short, barbered hair and the wide purple stripe of a Senator on his tunic bows.  "I'm at your service, domina."
"I understand educating your sons is expensive," Cornelia says pleasantly, handing him the paper.  "As you are aware, I support education of the young. Please accept this."
Smiling, he takes it, tucking it into the sinus of his toga and bows lower.  "Your kindness will be rewarded."
Then it's Publius in a variety of tabilii, the first four with smiling senators offering nods and thank you; the fifth raises his chin and shakes his head at the offered scroll.  Rising with a smile, Publius bows and leaves.
The picture beside that one comes to life, a deserted road outside of Rome late at night, and a litter is stopped by a group of masked men.  The man within the litter sticks his head out, demanding something, and he's dragged out as his slaves run away. 
Dragged to his knees, he stares up at them in horror as one of the men stabs him in the heart, waits for him to die, then takes out a handful of sticks and places it on his chest.  "For remembrance," the man says in Publius' voice.
"What the hell...." Dean starts as Publius appears in Cornelia's tabilium, once again the elegant knight, smiling as he sits down, and Cornelia makes a mark on that tiny scroll she was looking at last time. Dean looks at his companion, not entirely surprised to see her dressed once again as a Roman noblewoman, unscarred arms emerging from a dress the same unrelieved black as Cornelia's.  "That list--who's on it?"
"If I were guessing," she says, not looking nearly as surprised as she should, "it's a list of those responsible for Gaius Sempronius's death, from knights of the First Class to Headcount."
"She's killing them?"  She nods.  "For votes?"
She looks up at him.  "No, she's killing them because she wants them dead; the Senate just gave her a reason.  A woman who kills a man in vengeance is simply a woman, emotion rules her; one that kills for politics is a competitor, her offering is to ambition, and Rome respects ambition."
"That's not better."
"That's survival," she says succinctly.  "She doesn't have a choice, Dean."
"There's always a choice," he argues.  "She's doing this for money!"
"Not everyone can fake credit card applications when they need cash," she answers hotly.  "If she'd stayed in Misenum, she'd be dead, and every Gracchi with her.  There's been a knife to the throat of everyone in her household since the day Gaius Sempronius was murdered, including little Sempronia's.  There's only one thing that can stop a knife in Rome: money, and a lot of it.  She has one chance--one--to get this right, and her life and the lives of Claudia, Sempronia and little Sempronia, what remains of the Fulvii Flacci, the families of those killed by Opimius, and every tenant and retainer of the Cornelii or Sempronii Gracchi ride on her doing this. She needs money to get that knife away; she needs the Senate to be afraid to make sure it never comes back.  You think she doesn't know how much blood is on her hands?  She'd sell her soul if...."
Dean waits out the silence for as long as he can, uncomfortably aware he's not sure how to answer that.  Two wrongs don't make a right, sure, but not doing the wrong doesn't get any better results here, not if she's right.  And nothing he's seen so far tells him she's not.
Finally, just to break the silence, he asks, "Well?"
She shakes her head, frowning at nothing. "Nothing, just thinking."
Dean backtracks and has a really horrifying thought.  "She didn't--"
"No, she couldn't; Crossroad demons can't manifest at any crossroad in Rome and nowhere a Roman Crossroad college exists. You wanted to sell your soul to a demon, that took effort, assuming they'd even let you.  Roman citizenship, useful like that."
Dean straightens.  "Who?"
"The Lares," she answers, then seeing his expression, explains.  "The Lares are....not gods, but forces of the cosmos, I suppose.  Rome made contract with them, as we did with the gods.  The Crossroad Colleges see to the maintenance of the crossroads and offer to the Lares there; in return, they protect us."
"From demons?"
"From making deals with them, yes, among other things," she says. "Why?"
"Where can we get some of those?" Not gods, they escaped Lucifer's purge, so far so good.  "Like, summon them, what?"
"They're everywhere," she answers in surprise.  "You know not of them?"
"I don't." Before he can ask for more information, he hears Cornelia say, "We'll start with these," and hands Publius three more scrolls--regular size ones, Dean's relieved to see.  "I want them introduced to the Senate immediately; we've wasted enough time."
In the Senate, the consul calls for a division and Sempronia Graccha Minor, daughter of Gaius Sempronius Gracchus and Licinia Crassa, is awarded the (mostly non-existent) Gracchi estate in preference to any past, present, or future male claimants and made sole heir to the whole of her grandmother's estate with a lex Voconia.  The auction bill follows it, and there's more debate and the three-fifths discount fails, which worries Dean until he sees Cornelia's amusement when she receives the news.  "Okay, what?"
"It was never going to pass," she says, echoing Cornelia's amusement.  "She was just making a point."
"What point--" Women are emotional, he remembers.  "She wants them to think she's weak."
"And driven by revenge, at least for now," his companion answers.  "So they won't think too hard about what she's trying to do."
"Now the next three," Cornelia says, lying three scrolls on the gleaming citrus-wood desk.  She looks thinner, and standing behind her, Sappho and Cardixa both look worried.  "The return of the Gracchi property and fortune, the reversal of the proscriptions of my son's followers, and...." She pauses, weighing one in her hand.  "Their fortunes and properties.  I have the amounts of each listed by gens."
Dean looks at his companion.  "Not the nefas thing?"
"No, she wants the Gracchi fortune first; she's got to get rid of that knife before she can do anything else," she answers, eyes narrowing.  "The property of Gaius's followers all together is many times over greater than that, even at auction prices.  The revocation of the proscriptions of those families--and the Gracchi fortune--will be allowed to pass just to stop that one."
"Money."
"Don't let anyone tell you that you can't put a price on a human life," she answers.  "The price of hers, Sempronia's, Claudia's, little Sempronia's, and everyone under Cornelia's hand is the Gracchi fortune; money is a better deterrent than a sword."
"I get that," Dean answers patiently.  "But why would they give it to her?"
His companion smiles slowly, eyes on the picture. "She's a woman, what does she know of politics?  More importantly," she adds, "Sempronia Graccha Minor will one day be a woman, too, and they have unloved wives as well as sons."
The picture changes; Publius goes to more senators, casual and calm, and nodding happily when they take the scrolls eagerly and the paper tucked inside each ("Bank draft," his companion tells him.  "Cash is heavy.  Do I understand you use plastic cards for that now? That's genius. Who thought of it?").  There's another division and two of the bills pass with way too much excitement for people handing over a really large fortune to a woman whose sons they killed.  The Gracchi fortunate is secured; combined with what she'll inherit from Cornelia, Sempronia Graccha Minor is heir to the single largest private fortune in all of Rome, held in trust by her grandmother and more bankers than he knew existed.
"Holy shit," Dean breathes, craning his neck to read the papers in front of Cornelia: prime real estate both in Rome and throughout Italy and Africa, insulas in half a dozen cities, estates, farms, fish farms (fish farms?), interest in dozens of ships, mines, sleeping partnerships in corporations, the list goes on; it's too much to even work out actual value.  "That's--a lot."
"In Cornelia's time, fifty talents was a lavish dowry for a girl," she answers, and he chokes; just one of those fish farms was double that.  "Sempronia Graccha Minor is now officially inviolable; they'll be offering to the gods every time she gets the sniffles now."
He remembers what Publius said about girls and their dowries.  "Protected?"
"Cornelia set it up herself," she answers. "A husband might try, but it's ironclad.  Even Mater wouldn't be able to break the trust and lose it, not that she would have even tried."  Her voice turns wry.  "Or her heir, for that matter."  She makes a face. "I did try, yes.  Balbus had the grace not to laugh at me while I was sitting in front of him, at least."
"Claudia's and Licinia's dowries," Cornelia says, looking thinner and even more tired, but the dark eyes burn with energy, like they're feeding on Cornelia's body. Sappho, seated in the background and at work on scribe's table, watches her sharply.  "And the proscription of my sons and their status as nefas, so that their names be cleared and I can pay their fare."
"Are you certain you do not want to introduce the bill regarding Fulvius Flaccus now and use it to gain the other two?"
"No," she says.  "That one will be last."
Publius studies her for a long moment.  "Domina," he says, and Dean goes on alert at the switch from Cornelia. "Please hear me out.  Gaius loved him and he Gaius, and his courage and ethics there can be no doubt; after his consulship, he was stood for tribune of the Plebs for your son to help him continue his reforms.  He was a popular consul and respected general who earned a triumph from the People, and despite this, Opimius murdered him on the Aventine like a dog in the street and two of his fine sons as well."
"I know this," she agrees.
"Then you also know," he continues, "that they would have the Fulvii Flacci erased as entirely as the Sempronii Gracchi with the death of your sons.  They will not allow that child to come to manhood and take his father's place in Rome, domina.  If any of your sons' sons had lived, the same would have been true of them."
"I'm aware," she says.  "More than one senator who voted to uphold my granddaughter's right to the Gracchi fortune was thinking how well that fortune and mine would fill his family's purse if she should be taken to wife."
"If you wish to do this," Publius says, and even Dean can hear the sudden wariness in his voice, "coming to agreement with one with sufficient influence would greatly increase its chances of passage."
"No."  Her mouth tightens, something very old and unhappy filling her eyes, but her voice is cool.  "Children serve their families in all they do.  For the daughters of senators, marriage to those who can serve their family's ambitions is the price they pay for the privilege of education, literacy, wealth, and never to fear hunger or privation.  For my little Sempronia, it will be no different; she has neither father nor brothers whose ambitions must be considered, so her family's ambitions are these: she will be given in marriage to one who may need her fortune to serve his ambitions but will also make her a happy wife."
Reaching across the desk, Publius takes Cornelia's hand, looking into her eyes. "Neither you nor Gracchus could have known what he was when you made contract for Sempronia; we knew him from childhood and saw it not.  It is the rare man who was as he."
"My little Sempronia has neither father nor brothers to protect her," Cornelia answers. "Only me.  And I doubt I will live to see her wed.  I must be sure, Publius, and I cannot be if I use her to acquire votes on the Senate floor."  She pulls her hand away. "See to those two so we can introduce the last. I grow weary of Rome and cannot leave until all is done."
Publius takes the two scrolls and bank drafts, securing them in his toga before bowing low.  "As you wish."
Publius visits senators again, and Dean notes the difference in their behavior but somehow, he gets the job done with only two tiny piles of sticks.  Then Cornelia looks up at him and hands him the last scroll.  
"There's going to be a fight," Publius says quietly.
"I know," she says.  "And I shall win."
The rounds of senators this time are fast, flipping by at speed and (a couple of times) a door is shut in Publius's unsurprised face.  
"Fulvia Ursa," Cornelia tells him, not looking up from her writing.  "I need a quorum in the Senate for it to be discussed, and a simple majority is sufficient for its passage.  Give her this so we can start."  Cornelia produces a small velvet bag and hands it to Publius, who opens it to allow the rich color of the red stones in the intricately wrought necklet to catch the light.  "Tell her if she would like a crown, she must earn it."
"As you will," Publius says, secreting it away in the sinus of his toga.  "Who should I ask to introduce it to the Senate?"
"I have a volunteer," she replies, mouth quirking bitterly.  "It seems my Licinia's death was not in vain after all."
In the Curia Hostilia, an elderly man rises from his ivory curule chair in the front row--a consular, got it.  "I would speak," he says, and despite the fact he looks about a hundred years old, the guy's lungs are in working order.  Dean notes the startled faces of some of the Senators, and for that matter, his companion looks equally surprised.
"Who's he?"
"Marcus Licinius Crassus," she answers.  "The elder, I mean.  Licinia's grandfather.  He's been retired in the country for decades. I'm not sure anyone even knew he was still alive."
"You are recognized," the consul says, trying to look bored, but Dean can feel the growing anticipation.
"This is a petition asking for the recall of the only remaining son of Consular Gaius Flavius Flaccus, murdered on the Aventine Hill by Consul Opimius," he says clearly; you can't buy that kind of venom, "and last of his gens of that cognomen." Over half the Senate is on its feet, shouting, but the guy just grabs more lung power from somewhere, shouting in stentorian tones over them, "His exile ended, his citizenship restored, and the proscription on the Flavii Flacci rescinded!"
Dean takes a step back at the sheer volume coming from a goddamn picture.  "They know he's alive now."  Abruptly, a younger guy throws a punch at the guy beside him for no reason (well, okay, there was something about someone's feelings about fish in there, he thinks). "What the fuck?"
"Senatorial politics," his companion tells him and grins as two elderly senators get in an actual goddamn fist fight on the Senate floor, stools flying everywhere. "I love politics."
The shouting (and fighting, holy shit, they're brawling on the Senate floor) doesn't end until after the sun goes down.  "Voting can only take place between dawn and dusk," she explains, and nauseated, Dean watches as the number of piles of sticks increases over days. He can't help but be fascinated by the regular throw-downs on the Senate floor between guys old enough to be his grandfather though; he's also pretty sure most of them could beat him up before breakfast while calling each other impotent goatfuckers over his bleeding body.  
That part's fucking awesome; Granddad Licinius just kicked the ass of one of his sons-in-law while ten ancient (seriously ancient, like almost mummies) senators scream encouragement and hit anyone who comes near them with their walking sticks that look suspiciously like branches they picked up on the walk to the Senate this morning.  Some still have leaves.
Then the scene abruptly changes to Sappho and another servant who's holding a wooden tray of bottles, and Dean just stops himself from yelling to take them back to Calpurnius sobbing from a bloody nose while two grandpas tell him all about how he lacks a cock and offer to show him (and his wife) what one looks like and how to use it.  
Under her breath, his companion mutters something he takes as yeah, she's kind of disappointed, too.
Picking up one, Sappho opens the stopper and takes a quick sniff, nodding.  "Very good," she says, setting it back down and taking the tray.  "You may go.  Inform me if Cornelia asks for me."
Balancing the tray on one hand, Sappho pushes open the door to the bathing room just as Sempronia stands up, dark hair piled on her head and leaving absolutely nothing to the imagination.
The thing is, he never would have imagined this.
"Sappho!" Sempronia freezes, half turned, but Dean can't stop seeing the mass of ridged scars covering her back from shoulderblades down to her upper thighs before they disappear into the water. 
"Di Omnes," his companion whispers, and Dean mind helpfully offers up what did the damage; a cane, a whip, a leather belt, a switch from a tree in the peristyle garden that Sempronia had chopped down the day of her husband's death and burned with his body.  Years and years of those from the look of it, and he glimpses more on her small breasts--Jesus Christ--her belly, the fronts of her thighs.  He looks at his companion's dress and then at Sempronia: everywhere a normal dress would hide them, son of a bitch.
"Get out!" Sempronia shouts, face flushed red in humiliation as her thin hands fist at her sides. "I'll have you whipped...." Her voice cuts off and, looking nauseated, her shoulders bow as she closes her eyes.  Taking a shaking breath, she says, "Leave me.  Now."
"Yes, domina," Sappho answers, voice startling calm, her expression showing nothing but disinterest.  "Forgive me, the oils your mother ordered arrived.  Let me put them away."  There's a brief pause as she glances into the hall before shutting the door firmly.  Carefully not looking at Sempronia, she puts them on a small table, taking time to rearrange them for no reason Dean can figure out.  "Would you like me to fetch your maid, domina?"
"No."  Sempronia still hasn't moved.  "Nissa is otherwise occupied."  From the way she says it, Nissa is always occupied when Sempronia decides she needs to bathe.
Sappho nods, turning with one of the bottles in her hand.  "Allow me to assist you, then."
Sempronia's expression turns to horror, mouth dropping open, but Sappho simply walks to the edge of the tub and sets down the oil.  
"Sappho, you will--" Sempronia's voice cuts off as Sappho loosens her dress and it falls to her feet.  Stepping out of it, she picks it up, tossing it toward the wall.
Dean isn't the kind of guy who spies on naked girls in bathtubs--bathing rooms--but holy fucking shit.  Sappho is really....
"Healthy," he blurts out, and feels his face heat.  "She's--uh, doing pretty good since she got here.  Good to know."
"That's what I was going to say," his companion answers breathlessly, and glancing at her, he's relieved to see the same expression he feels on his own face.  Sappho could model a Greek statue or something: full breasts, a narrow waist and slim hips, overall drop-dead gorgeous.  She's almost unreal.  "My maids never stripped down to bathe me," she adds, a note of disappointment in her voice.  "And none of them looked like that."
The movies lied; he should have known. "So this wasn't standard?"
"I wish.  Clodius would often join me in my bath, however," she answers distractedly as Sappho joins a silent Sempronia in the bath like the opening scene of all the porn ever (or should be), water lipping at her skin until she's submerged to the upper thigh and therefore leaving Dean no safe place to look. "He preferred to be the one to bathe and oil me.  A well-made man indeed, but no Sappho."
Huh.  "That fun?  The bath thing?"
"I recommend it," she says, then hisses, and Dean follows her gaze back to Sappho and stills; as Sappho half-turns to get the oil, they can see the barely visible silver lines that cover almost her entire back.  Sempronia closes her mouth, but she stands very still as Sappho gently pours the olive oil in her hands before stepping behind her and starting with Sempronia's shoulders.  
"Relax, domina," Sappho says in the most normal voice in the world.  "I was well-taught; tell me if you feel any discomfort."
At the first touch, Sempronia shakes like a leaf, but Sappho knows what she's doing (so you can take classes in bathing people?  Who knew?); each touch is firm and impersonal, yet somehow soothing as well, at least from the way Sempronia relaxes.  Unmarked shoulders and arms first, all the way to the fingers, her neck, using the strigil to scrape away the oil and dirt before she starts on Sempronia's back.  Sempronia stiffens, biting her lip, but slowly, she relaxes again, eyes closing in sensuous pleasure as Sappho works down to the curve of her ass and uses the strigil again.
By the time Sappho comes around to face her, Sempronia's hot color's faded enough that its return is really noticeable.  Pouring out more oil, Sappho works down her chest, oblivious to Sempronia's embarrassment.
"Your last master flogged you," Sempronia says suddenly and looks appalled at herself.  "You need not speak of it, of course."
"No, not him, domina," Sappho says, rubbing in the oil beneath Sempronia's breasts.  "My first owners: my mistress, not my master."
Sempronia head comes up.  "Why?"
"When my master ordered me to his bed," Sappho answers calmly, but the flat edge he remembers from when she told Cornelia about that is evident; she really, really doesn't like remembering that, and on a guess, it's not just because of the beating after. "She liked it not."
"You healed well," Sempronia whispers, something fragile in her voice.  "A slave who bears the marks of flogging--it can be difficult for them to find good masters."
"My second mistress saw to that," Sappho answers, smiling faintly, as she always does when speaking of Maria.  "She was a good physician and taught me a great deal.  She also recommended I avoid letting my skin darken in the sun so they're less visible."  Her smile fades. "I was fortunate; Grania scarred the face of the one he took before me.  My master forbade her to do that again; he had to sell the girl at a loss and that displeased him greatly."
Sempronia doesn't look surprised, but the revulsion in her expression and the set of her jaw reminds him of Cornelia when Sappho told her life history.  "My father said the measure of a man can be taken in these three things: the state of his horse, the welcome of his wife, and the contentment of his slaves.  A man's truest nature is revealed not in his behavior to his equals, his betters, or even those beneath him, but to those within his hand."
"Your father was wise," Sappho says with a flickering smile at Sempronia, and the comfortable silence between them continues as Sappho helps Sempronia out of the bath and she's stretched out on the padded table.  Getting more oil, Sappho goes to work, and suddenly, Dean's really aware he's watching two naked women.  "Would that all Roman owners were as kind as your father."
"It's not kindness."
Sappho pauses briefly, the barest check in her movements. "Yes, domina."
"Have you ever seen a pack of dogs turn on the weakest of their number or those injured?" Sempronia asks abruptly, sitting up to look at Sappho, who takes an abortive step back.
"I have, domina," she agrees, oily hands hovering uncertainly.  "Why?"
"They are dogs; they have no judgment, they do not think," Sempronia answers.  "That is their nature.  He who flogs his horse, his wife, or his slaves has the nature of a dog; he is no man.  It's not kindness, Sappho; my father was a man, as were my brothers after him.  Say rather would that all that wear the shape of men be truly men; most are not."
"Or women, domina?" Sappho says lightly; Dean didn't realize she'd tensed until she relaxes now.
"Or women," she agrees, mouth quirking as lies back down, submitting to Sappho's ministrations.  "My mother is head of this house, mistress of its fire and water, not me; when you speak to me, 'Sempronia' is sufficient."
"Yes, Sempronia," Sappho says obediently, and Sempronia doesn't wince at all as she works the scented oil deep into her skin, eyes falling closed in sensual pleasure.  Naked women, Dean's mind offers helplessly, and he represses it firmly, concentrating on Sappho's face; that's a mistake but also a revelation.  Unobserved by Sempronia, her expression isn't 'doing duty whatever' but more 'I could do this for the rest of my life for fun'.  Huh.  Seems like she shares more with Sappho the poet than just a name.
"I see why Cardixa welcomes you now," Sempronia says drowsily as Sappho works down her calves.  "She was jealous, you understand; she's been with my mother almost all her life, as close as sisters."  Then, with an acidic edge he's never heard in Cornelia's voice, much less Sempronia's, "Far superior to her only sister of birth.  Cornelia Major was far too infatuated with her high position to notice someone as mundane as a little sister.  She was like their mother and cared for three things only: her rank, her husband, and her wardrobe, in that order."
"You liked her not?" Sappho asks.
"I liked her very well," Sempronia answers.  "But for what she was.  It's a difficult lesson for many, for some impossible."  There's a thoughtful silence before she adds, "Harder still is to use those you like not; even my mother finds difficulty in that."
Sappho hesitates.  "I did not know that."
"Aemilia Paulla, wife of Cato the Elder's eldest son, was my husband's sister," she says.  "The sons of that union may be their mother's son's in their snobbery, but they're no less of the Catones Licinianii; you want to break the will of the Plebian Assembly, that needs a Cato." 
Sappho finishes with Sempronia's feet and at a touch, Sempronia rolls over, and Dean's once again really aware he's watching one naked women being massaged by another naked woman (Sappho's expression immediately rearranges itself to neutrality).
"I thought the Catones did not share amicus with the Cornelii or the Sempronii," Sappho says carefully.  "Cato the Elder was enemy to the patriciate and the old Roman families."
"This is true," Sempronia answers.  "But the Catones Licinianii bear the existential burden of their grandfather's peasant birth and his second marriage to Salonia; that's the Aemilia in them, no help for it, but it's a bore indeed.  Those of Salonia's get are of far better quality and would serve our purposes well, but none of them are of age to be of assistance.  However, an invitation to the Catones Salonianii to dinner will prick the Catones Licinianii, who are so thin of skin a single scratch will draw blood; they will do whatever required to assure they are seen as Cato the Elder's true line.  My mother is the first woman in Rome; she must use it."
Sappho nods slowly, and Dean's concentration on the conversation breaks as she starts to work down Sempronia's chest; sure, this is important (probably?) but Jesus Christ, who knew politics happened in the bathing room?  A vision of Cas discussing camp business while giving him a bath flashes through his mind; okay then, so that's definitely going to happen as soon as they get back to Chitaqua.  They're gonna need a better bathtub; maybe he should build a new bathroom as well.
After a moment, Sappho says, "The reason your mother's dislike of the children of Cato the Elder's eldest son has often eluded me."
A slow smile spreads over Sempronia's face, and Dean's startled by the change; she looks years younger, and there's a brightness to her that wasn't there before, like the kind of person you'd have a beer with while she told you all the best gossip. "How Roman you grow, Sappho; you couch your curiosity in such innocuous terms.  Publius and my mother did well with you."
Sappho flushes, looking disconcerted.  "I do not--"
"I am not so delicate," she continues, smile turning into a grin.  "Don't look so.  She dislikes the Catones not for their bloodline, but for their ethics.  Cato the Elder was a brilliant man, but those born of his first marriage to Licinia beat their wives and their slaves; those born of his second marriage to Salonia do not.  Salonia's influence, of course, but then, she saw to her son's rearing and education after Cato died, and she was far superior to Licinia--or Aemilia--no matter her ancestry."
Sappho tilts her head.  "Your mother liked her as well."
"She was among my acquaintance in Rome," Sempronia says, voice taking on an edge. "My husband liked it not, but I liked her very well.  We had much in common.  I miss her still."
Yeah, Dean thinks, thinking of Sempronia's back; he supposes they did have a lot in common.
"Nothing is lower to a Roman of the First Class than a wife-beater; they are dogs," Sempronia continues, expression distant.  "That is their nature, they have no reason, they will not change; like all dogs, when they grow rabid, it must either be tolerated or they must be killed; they will bite, the only question is when."
Dean was pretty sure after seeing that picture of Publius what happened to Scipio Aemilianus Africanus (especially in light of those piles of sticks), but he's still surprised to hear Sempronia say it, voice thick with hatred and fear and relief, too.    
"The Catones Licinianii may be dogs," Sempronia says abruptly, looking faintly annoyed with herself, "but that is an asset in this case; like a dog, when they sink their teeth into something, they will not let it go.  My mother knows that as well as I do; it's time she set aside her dislike and finished this."
Sappho concentrates on Sempronia's stomach for a long moment before slowly working down to her thighs; despite how painfully thin she is, the strong musculature in her legs shows she really likes to walk, and then she stretches, spreading her legs for Sappho's ministrations and his mind shuts down.
"Breathe, Dean," his companion says in amusement and he looks at her incredulously.  "It's just a massage.  A really....thorough one."
"This part," Dean tells the wall above Sempronia and Sappho, "is just like the movies."
"I do not think," Sappho says slowly, working the oil in slowly, which hey, points for her work ethic, "that your mother will welcome such advice from me."
"She will," Sempronia answers, eyes closing.  "Tell her to expect my attendance at both dinners two and four days from now.  She will understand."
Sappho's hands falter, and Sempronia's eyes open, curious.  "I understand better," Sappho says quietly, "why you go not into Roman society.  Surely--surely it can be avoided, your health--"
"I'm a Sempronia Graccha," Sempronia answers, voice quiet. "If my brothers could face a mob bent on their deaths without fear, I can face a dinner party."
Dean looks at his companion, whose surprised expression tells him he's missing something.  "She doesn't like company."
"She doesn't like Rome," she corrects him as Sappho assists Sempronia to her feet.  "And no fault in her, for how they treated her was a disgrace."
Dean thinks of the scars with an internal wince.  "Why? If he was beating her and everyone knew it--"
"Not many did," she answers grimly.  "The rights of a paterfamilias are absolute when it comes to those in his hand, and those that didn't like it simply avoided him.  Sempronia had great pride; she would reveal to no one what he did to her, and to cover for her frequent public absences while she recovered, her husband would call her misshapen and barren and of nasty temperament.  We can be cruel, Dean; she bore it because she had to, but it makes it no easier now that all know."
"Gossip," he says in disgust; wow, he's getting tired of it.  "Why didn't she leave him in the first place?"
She looks up at him in surprise. "How?"
"She could just...." He trails off, adjusting his thinking.  "She literally couldn't."
"Literally," she answers slowly, "she could.  She could return to her family and petition for a divorce, though he might not allow the last.  She was a Sempronii and granddaughter of Africanus, and her family would have protected her.  It would have created a permanent rift between the families, however; her husband was Cornelia's first cousin through her mother and adopted son of Cornelia's brother, and he was guardian of Sempronia's brothers after their father died."
Dean cocks his head; he's not liking where this may be going. "So what, her brothers would pick him over her?"
"Of course not," she replies impatiently.  "They were not dogs but truly men; they would have given her protection and support without question.  Even the Sempronii could not have easily weathered the disgrace of it, however, and her brothers' careers and work would have been impaired; they would have cared not, but she would have cared very much.  He was family, Dean; how do you tell your brothers that their beloved guardian and friend treats you with less consideration than a mine slave?  How could she bear for them to see the proof...."  Her voice falters, and Dean tries to imagine showing anyone--anyone at all--the kind of scars that Sempronia has, explain where they came from, and can't.
"So she stayed for them?"
His companion hesitates, and he realizes she's rubbing her forearm, absent of the criss-cross of open wounds; that doesn't mean they aren't there, though.  Invisible wounds are still wounds, and harder to heal because of it; you can almost pretend they aren't even there.  "I don't know why she stayed," she says softly, and he has the feeling it's not just Sempronia she's talking about.
He thinks of the picture, Sempronia's bruised face, Cornelia and Claudia and Gaius all in black--no Tiberius, though.  They were in mourning.  "What changed her mind?"
"Tiberius," she says softly.  "She discovered that her husband conspired in his death and went to her mother.  All Rome knew Cornelia and Sempronia were responsible for Scipio Aemilianus's death --no other way could Publius have gained access to her husband's home and cubicle to kill him so easily without Sempronia's assistance--but none cared.  It is a paterfamilias right to do what he will with those in his hand," she adds, voice lowering, "but that makes him no less a dog; no one mourns the death of a dog that bites."
"So her being at dinner," he says, changing the subject.  "What does that mean?"
"He was a bad husband, but his name, at least, has some worth," she answers, a thread of relief in her voice.  "The widow of Scipio Aemilianus Africanus Minor, consular, censor, and general as well as adopted grandson of Africanus, isn't to be despised.  The fact she'll see the Catones Salonianii when she's seen no one else will assure the Catones Licinianii will burn down Rome itself if it assures she'll see them as well; they'll pay the price she asks for the favor without question.  Very well done."
Dean glances back at the scene and realizes they're back in the Cornelia's tabilium; Cornelia looks exhausted, and Sappho and Cardixa both watch her as Publius enters with a low bow, looking solemn.  To his surprise, Sempronia is in attendance, seated in a low chair  just behind and to the right of her mother, expression impassive, Nissa standing behind her.
"That doesn't look good," Dean murmurs as Publius formally seats himself across from Cornelia.
Cornelia seems to feel it as well, bloodless lips tightening.  "The vote was taken?"
"It could not be delayed," he answers soberly.  "A division was called a quarter hour before the sun set."
Cornelia waits, but Publius isn't biting.  "And?"
"By one vote," he says, dragging it out, "it passed.  The proscription of the Flavii Flaccii has been rescinded, their rank reinstated, and they've been recalled from exile; Gaius Flavius Flaccus's father's property is still forfeit to the State, of course, but his mother's dowry was returned in full, and serendipitous indeed, a mysterious benefactor assumed to be a Fulvius who does not want the stain of treason but wishes to help has augmented it. It's enough to assure his mother's comfort as well as his membership in the First Class and his rank senatorial when the census is taken. He'll be able to stand for office."
Cornelia leans back, eyes closing in relief.  "It worked."
"We also have someone to take the bills before the Plebian Assembly," Publius continues.  "He spoke to me after the vote was taken; he'll convene the Assembly tomorrow and introduce them en toto."
"All of them at once?" Cornelia asks blankly.  "To the Plebian Assembly?  Are they suicidal?"
"Who is this brave Roman?" Sempronia interjects before Publius can answer, and Cornelia half-turns to look at her daughter.  "Such a man is a treasure indeed."
"I am pleased that you asked," Publius replies airily.  "Coincidentally, the same man whose vote gave us a majority in the Senate: Marcus Porcius Cato Licinianus, tribune of the Plebs and current president of the Plebian Assembly.  I almost forgot--he sends his regards to you, Sempronia, as well as your mother."
Sempronia nods, folding her hands demurely in her lap as Cornelia regards her thoughtfully.  "Tell him we will welcome him and his wife to dinner before we leave Rome," Cornelia says.  "Hopefully, that will be soon."
"He did not think it would take long," Publius says.  "The Catones are not known to dither."
"Interesting."  Dean looks at his companion, who cocks her head. "Our Cato is smarter than I thought.  Rome is going to adore him; he'll be elected to any office he wants if he can pull this off."
"Can he?" Dean asks, thinking how hard it was to get some of those passed in the Senate, especially the last one.  "Doesn't the vote have to be unanimous in the Assembly?  One veto kills it."
"The Plebian Assembly is the most popular entertainment in Rome for the People," she answers, "and the People loved Gaius Sempronius, and they'd burn Rome down for Cornelia.  Right now, word is spreading through Rome that tomorrow, Cato is going to bring all Cornelia's Senate decrees to the Assembly for ratification.  Cornelia only owns half of them; getting the rest is up to Cato."
Abruptly, the picture spreads out to encompass the entire wall, and Dean sees a tall, skinny guy, almost swimming in his whitened toga approach the rostra, dark haired and unassuming, but with a nose that rivals an eagle.  Before him is spread what looks like all of Rome, anticipatory and waiting; Dean looks at him as he fussily rearranges his toga and tries to be impressed.
Then he opens his mouth. 
"Quirites," he roars, and holy shit, that guy must have a built-in microphone or something; even Dean takes a step back at the sheer volume.  "Today, we speak of injustice--no, I will not," he interrupts himself, and a sigh goes through the crowd; like them, Dean waits for it, breath caught in his throat.  "Today, I will not prevaricate; today, I will speak nothing but truth; today, I will speak the words and you will hear them and know them as true.  Today, we speak of murder, for what else do we call it when innocent men die without trial?"  It's impossible, but he seems taller, looming over the rostra and the tiny, insignificant men behind him.  "We speak of Gaius Sempronius Gracchus, of Consular Gaius Fulvius Flaccus, and the thousands of Roman citizens that died by the Senate's decree without a trial!"
Behind him, half the solemn tribunes jump in horror and the crowd roars its approval loud enough to shake Rome itself.
"A true Cato," his companion says approvingly.  "Go straight for the throat and don't let go. He's setting them up; a veto on those decrees will be seen as support of Gaius Sempronius's murder.  By the time Cato finishes his opening speech, anyone who vetoes will be seen as personally stabbing Gaius Sempronius to death in the Grove."
Dean eyes the crowd uncertainly. "Tribunes of the Plebs are inviolable."
"They are," she agrees.  "But throwing them screaming from the Tarpeian Rock doesn't count."
"They won't...." Cato is still talking, and the crowd is like a single living thing, huge and ineffable and impossible to control, held here only by the power of Cato's voice.  Dean watches as the scene changes; always Cato in his white toga, always that huge, endless crowd, hungry, starving, and Cato feeds it: their rage, their grief, their hunger for vengeance.  What Cornelia did from the Forum grounds Cato does from the rostra itself, a bludgeon to Cornelia's elegant rapier, but it gets the job done just as well.  Now, he can see why Tiberius and Gaius Sempronius Gracchus were so dangerous to the State, why their mother frightened the Senate; demagogues aren't just in what they say or how they say it, but the unbending will that backs it, the spark of something within that can ignite a crowd to believe them, purely personal power that can leash--or unleash--a mob.  Cato has them as surely as any Gracchi and won't let them go, and not one of the other tribunes doesn't see that crowd dragging them screaming to the Tarpeian Rock on Cato's word.
Scanning the crowd, he finds her immediately; in a shadow by the shops of the Tabernae is Cornelia in black, veil obscuring her face and Sappho beside her, watching, and even from here, he can see her faint smile.
Eight days, only two tribunes are holding out; thirteen, and there's only one; on the seventeenth, that one--visibly bruised and limping, and from the way he's standing, some ribs might have suffered--sullenly withdraws his veto.
"Thank you for coming so quickly," Cornelia says abruptly, seated at her desk in the tabilium; her face is thinner, skin stretched tightly over her cheeks, but it's the strange blankness in her eyes that makes the hair raise on the back of his neck. Wary, Publius does, and Cornelia takes out a scroll more crumpled than rolled.  "The Pontifex Maximus conferred with the other pontifices," she says flatly.  "And it has been decided that my sons status as nefas cannot be lifted due to a black dog interrupting the sacrifice of the white bull.  The gods have spoken; Charon remains unpaid, and my sons' shades left to wander."
Publius's eyebrows raise.  "How did a black dog find itself in the precincts of the priests?"
"Carried physically, no doubt, by the Pontifex Maximus himself just for the occasion," she spits, throwing it on the desk.  
"The Senate--"
"When it comes to religious law, it could be decades at the best of times," she interrupts.  "Cato will try to force the Plebian Assembly to pass a new bill to overrule it, but he was not optimistic, and in this much, I trust his judgment."  
"Then we will try later," Publius says firmly. "The Senate is...itself.  There is time, Cornelia; you are not like to die so soon that failure is inevitable. What else?  Claudia?"
Cornelia's expression remains unchanged, but Dean can't help but think of Licinia.  "Emet sees her twice every market interval, and her maid follows his instructions to the letter.  He says it is melancholia, and its progression, while slow, does not seem to be improving, though the worst has been arrested, he thinks.  The blow of Licinia's death was too much for her, and with this...."
"It is not an uncommon malady," Publius says encouraging.  "There are many treatments for it, all know that.  When we return to Misenum, the change of scenery alone will do her good; surely Emet will find better success once we're in the country."
"Emet says the same," she says, and he sees her relax slightly.  "He has consulted among several Greek and Roman physicians as well who are familiar with it and has already asked to join my household." She makes a face.  "The Ambassador has made it clear this is very acceptable to him, as someone told him I do not keep a physician, and he would like to attend me and Sempronia as well."
Publius raises his eyebrows. "Strange, that. I wonder who could have been so indiscreet?"
"I wonder," she says sourly, but her smile comes out.  "You mean to join us? I didn't want to presume, but I'd hoped you would."
"Where else would I go?" he answers, elaborately nonchalant.  "My younger brother sees to the honor of our gens, and is far happier in Rome when I am not."
"Your brother," she says succinctly, "is an ass.  And what of Titus Annius?"
Publius makes a face. "He must marry, we both know that," he replies.  "He is first in his family to reside in Rome, the first to be elected to office; his duty is clear."
"But less clear when you are by," she says softly.  "Can I help?"
"Find him a wife," Publius says firmly. "He would be a good husband, but a wife would--find difficulty if she was not aware of his--preferences.  One who...would be content with what he can give.  A friend and partner, yes, but he cannot give more."
"I thought you wanted something hard." Publius straightens.  "A widow, thirty-five, so still young and fertile, of excellent family and wide connection, with one son and daughter living.  He can adopt the son if he wishes, but I think she would be willing to bear more children.  Since her widowhood, despite her limited circumstances, she has--not been amenable to marrying again, and I assured there was no financial need for it.  For reasons I think may be compatible with those of Annius."
Publius stares at her. "How did you--"
"I very much enjoyed his company at dinner," she answers.  "My acquaintance is vast, and I explored it. I would not cause you pain, however."
"It would relieve my mind considerably to have him settled and content," Publius says with certainty.  "Who is she?"
"Cornelia Germanica, called Germanica; her grandfather served under my father in Carthage; they were great friends," Cornelia answers.  "He was the first of their family to be elected consul and thus ennobled them.  There are no males of his line left, only Germanica, and she has been under my protection since she was widowed, of course.  Her family served my father well so want for nothing."
Publius starts to answer, then sees Cornelia's mischievous expression.  "Great friend to Africanus?  Like brothers, one might say?"
"Certainly not," she says with dignity.  "At least, from what I understand of the closeness of brothers; I am but a woman, after all, and know not the ways of men."
"You're incorrigible."  Publius shakes his head. "Consular stock and granddaughter of one of Africanus's...generals." Cornelia looks more dignified still.  "Would she agree, however?  Annius is only a New Man."
"I think she would.  She's extremely well educated, intelligent, cultured, witty: the ideal political wife.  An excellent politician as well: if she were a man, she would be consul in five years' time.  To be partner to a man who wishes to be consul--especially a New Man--would suit her very well.  I will arrange it once we return to Misenum, let them meet and see what comes of it."  She studies Publius for a moment.  "Is something--"
"I meant to comment on Sempronia but you distracted me," he says.  "I had not thought to see her so animated as she has been the last weeks."  Cornelia's expression softens.  "Do you know the reason, for I do not."
"Emet tells me that to treat someone as if they are made of glass will convince them that they are," she answers, the sourness this time broken with a rueful smile.  "I know not what happened, no, but Sempronia has submitted to Emet's rule with poor grace, which he says is very encouraging, for a patient that does not argue is a patient whose spleen needs relieving.  Now, Publius, I know your face and all its moods; tell me what pill I must take that requires this much honey to swallow."
"I meant to wait until I was certain, but that is prevarication; I am certain now."  He settles himself, mouth tight.  "Opimius."
"What of Opimius?  His trial proceeds apace."
"He will be acquitted," Publius says quietly.  "Carbo has done his work well.  Doubtless the proceeds from the sale of all that property helped a great deal to convince the jury of his innocence."
Cornelia doesn't move.  "My son, his followers, and three thousand Roman lives ended without trial mean nothing, then."
"They're to be the example of the Senate's power," Publius says quietly.  
Cornelia is silent for a long moment.  "I wish you to accompany my household back to Misenum in two days' time."
"And you?" he asks.
"I need to finish with my bankers," she answers. "My little Sempronia's future must be secured.  Before you leave, however, I will need you to set up a meeting for me with Decumius of the Crossroad College; tell him 'for remembrance'. He will understand."
Publius hesitates, licking his lips.  "Cornelia--"
"I built a temple to her; she refused my offering and turned a deaf ear to my pleas," Cornelia says tonelessly.  "Diana promised my son Rome would pay; it has not."
"What are you planning?" he asks.
Cornelia's eyes fix on the scroll.  "Arrange it, Publius.  Now leave me."
Slowly, he rises to his feet.  "Domina," he says with a bow that makes Cornelia wince.  "As you will."
Dean opens his mouth then shuts it; the scene changes abruptly to late night, two shrouded figures in the alley behind Cornelia's house. One of the figures--unmistakably Cornelia--nods at the shorter figure's deep bow.  
"Domina," he asks in the patois of the Subura, "what is your will?"
"Can you read?" she asks with none of her usual warmth.
"I can, domina," he answers.  "I can count as well."
She hands over the tiny scroll.  "I think you know how best to use this."
He takes it, opening it and skimming down the list, lips pursing.  "Some of these, domina--"
"You cannot do it?"
He grins at her.  "I can, of course.  It will take time, however."
"You have until my death," she answers.  "Is that time enough?"
"It is," he answers, closing the scroll.  "My fee?"
"What is the price for a market interval of wine for your college?"
"Equal to each name on this list," he answers, and she nods agreement.  "It shall be done, domina.  For remembrance."
"For remembrance," she agrees softly.  
Dean swallows at the scene begins to flicker through various scenes, just slow enough for him to see they're all death.  "She's killing them all."  A glance at his companion's face confirms it.  "She got what she wanted. This isn't about anything but revenge."
She doesn't answer.  
"So that 'without a trial' thing is bullshit," he continues.  "Only counts if we like 'em--"
"You don't understand--"
"I get murder," he snaps.  "I get killing a whole bunch of people just because you're pissed at them.  What, back then there was another word for it?"
"Who are you to judge what she did?  You know nothing of politics, of--"
"I know revenge," Dean says quietly; in his peripheral vision, a guy in a plain toga abruptly stops short, blood spilling down his chest from a slit throat. For a moment, the guy's face is Micah's, then Alicia's; he focuses on his companion, feeling sick.  "That list? Not all of them put their blades in Gaius themselves."
"They were part of the mob that stalked him," she retorts.  "They were under the command of those who ordered his death.  What does it matter if they didn't do it personally; they belonged to the men who caused Gaius's death.  That is reason enough for them to die."
The picture shows a small cottage, a man come to the door in the plain clothes of a farmer, and behind him, a wife and small children; he only has time to open his mouth before his throat is cut.  Thankfully, he only sees the woman's mouth open in horror, the children's shocked faces; the scene cuts before he can hear them scream.  Doesn't help: another cottage, somewhere else, another guy, another family, it just doesn't end.
He meets his companion's eyes.  "Where's the door?"
"Dean," she says quietly, "you--you can't understand."
For the first time, he realizes she's wearing the sword again--or maybe it just appeared now.  He flexes his hand---feels okay--but he can see even sheathed there's something different about it, something--off.  Any other time, he might want to check it out, but right now, he doesn't care.
"You're right, I can't. Where's the door?"  Going to the couch, he retrieves Cas's breakfast and looks around: no door.  "Well?"
She stares at him, mouth tight, then points behind him; look at that, a door.
"Thanks," he says, starting toward it.  
"Dean," she says just as he reaches for the door.  "They--why does it matter?  They were just--"
"People," he says, opening the door to the hall to his and Cas's room. "And they mattered.  If you're calling me here for this, stop; I'm done."
Despite the fact Cas dressed so fast he's pretty sure non-existent Grace was involved and the Alicia method of eating was utilized (Dean mentally reviewed the Heimlich Maneuver twice watching that), they barely get downstairs before Joe returns, looking not quite as grim but still not good.
"Alison says it's on the list," he says, dropping on the couch in the Situation Room with a sigh.  With Haruhi's team on duty on Seventh, the room feels unnaturally quiet, and now has unattended laptops that may or may not tempt Cas into spreadsheet theory or whatever.  "Don't have much yet, obviously, but it says something she already heard about it along with the catalyst event.  From what she understands from Claudia, it's coming from the refugees, but which, who knows.  Dolores is pissed, if that helps; I told Alison about this morning with Alicia and how we think it got around, so on a guess, Carol's dealing with Dolores about now."
He looks at Cas, slumped on the arm of the couch, one foot on the cushion.  "What do you think?"
"I think it's truly an amazing coincidence that we hear this one--accusing us of killing people with supposedly questionable Croatoan infection status--at the same time as the one accusing Alicia of murdering small children who were already Croatoans.  If they aren't related directly, they will be soon."
Dean sees it, but---oh.  "They're going to forget the 'Croat' part when talking about the kids, got it."  Sitting back in his chair, he tries to think. "Let me get this straight; the one about me started this morning and is already over half of town and part of a catalyst event in the YMCA?  Even for gossip, that's fast."
"I think it started earlier, and on a guess, Claudia knows it, too," Joe offers.  "Especially if it started with the refugees, and you can't blame 'em--"
"Yeah, I can," Dean interrupts.
"They're in a shitty sitch, in a town of strangers, and they're gonna get conflicting information no matter how much Claudia and the other volunteers work to make sure they hear what actually happened.  The rumors aren't the problem, that's standard anywhere, ever, and that one's a natural; it's the consistency and speed that are the problem."
Dean starts to protest then thinks better of it. "What do you mean?"
"Good detail work," he answers, crossing his arms.  "The rumor mill's a game of telephone, but this one--at least, the versions I've heard, the ones people actually believe--are too consistent on what actually happened and are reasonable extrapolations--hell, if I were among them, this one I'd listen to.  They're not saying you did it for fun; they're saying you did it on spec.  Not actual dismembered exposure--"
"--but simply possible."  Okay, that is reasonable, and in a sense, true.  No, he didn't call in anyone from Ichabod to check, but even if everyone there was miraculously not Croat infected, they were dead; fast or slow, what a Croat did to a body for fun didn't couldn't survive it, not for long.  "Like the military when they closed the borders."
"That's what they're thinking, yeah.  And that's not past tense; anyone found in the buffer zone is shot on sight." Joe sighs.  "For better or worse, we're a militia, and we don't need uniforms for people to know on sight what we are.  Dean, this isn't the refugees fault; if anything, it shows their survival skills are in working order.  They're trapped here, so damn straight they're not going to dismiss anything until they're sure.  The problem is, this one doesn't just sound reasonable; it's hit critical.  Enough people have said it--and enough people believe it--that it's as good as true.  Add in the Alicia thing--and that one's still confined to Ichabod's own mess, but not for long--and of course they're going to believe it."
"So we're all murderers," Dean says out loud; yeah, that sounds shitty, period.  Then he catches Joe's faint smirk. "What?"
"Well, one of us won the lottery," Joe says casually, leaning back and balancing his right ankle on his left knee. "Two, rather.  Guess who are the saviors of Ichabod right now?  Hint: he killed five Hellhounds with his bare hands, she brutally beat a couple to death with her gun and drove the other off with a determined grimace, to protect a sad group of civilians--or retrieve bodies, or just for sheer righteousness, pick two--and I want to be there when Sarah hears about this."
Dean starts to grin at Cas's horrified expression.  "Five?"
"I corrected a couple of people, upped it to six and Sarah three," Joe says smugly.  "Even people who saw it live are starting to wonder if they forgot how to count.  Which was a lot of people, by the way, even people who were asleep or on the other side of town.  Though to be fair--"
"There weren't that many on duty on the wall," Cas protests, and oh God, of course he didn't notice.
Dean exchanges a helpless look with Joe, and realizes he's up.  "Cas, you led a fucking procession to the walls--"
"We just walked up the street."
"Procession," Dean says clearly.  "Cas, all that was missing were some trumpets.  Jumping off the wall like Bruce Willis should be taking notes was just icing.  I got there just ahead of not even standing room only."
If anything, Cas is even more horrified.  "They need to be corrected--"
"Good luck with that," Joe interrupts even more smugly before he leans forward, looking between them.  "But you see what I mean on consistency?  Cas's has like, a dozen variations, not a surprise; yours has all the pertinent facts, just the wrong conclusion.  Alicia's is still spreading, but there's almost no chance with yours out there, this won't be 'Croat kids' but 'kids who may or may not have been exposed to Croat'."
"Almost like it's not just random accident." His candidates are the idiots two of Micah's--fuck if he can remember their names--but why is up in the air.  If a mob comes at their building to kill them, Micah probably shouldn't want to be in it at the time.  "And to top it off, a catalyst event, first in three days.  And Kyle killed five of 'em."
"I was going to pretend that didn't happen for a little while longer," Joe answers.  "No injuries, by the way; five dead, that put the room below threshold and it broke.  Kyle doesn't miss."
He waves Joe silent at the knock on the door, followed almost immediately by Vera peering in.
"Hey," Dean says, getting to his feet as she and Amanda come in, looking her over before checking Amanda's expression; survey says, good.  "How you feeling?"
"Fine," she says with a shrug. "Haven't slept that well in years."  Her eyes dart around the room briefly before focusing on Dean again.  "Look, you and Cas have a minute?  Patient confidentiality and everything."
"Dean," Amanda says, "I'm going to check the wall, see how it's going.  We have two teams of recruits up there and I want to--"
"Scare them?"  She nods hopefully.  "Go with God."
"I'll go with you," Joe says, heaving himself off the sofa with a grunt: right side, quicksand, he called it.  "Teresa's running patrol today, but Manuel's reporting what's going on with the investigation.  Dean, you mind?"
"Meeting in an hour," Dean answers.  "Brief Amanda on this morning, would you?  And keep me updated if we're accused of murdering anyone else.  Especially if there are bodies involved."
Joe salutes on his way to the door.  "Got it."
Cas locks the door behind them before abruptly hugging Vera, who looks two parts surprised and one part pleased, wrapping her arms around his shoulders.
"I'm fine," she says against his shoulder.  "Promise. Just--weirded out."
"Sit down," Dean says, and grabs a chair as Cas and Vera take the sofa (center, smart of 'em).  "What do you remember?"
"I was possessed by a god so I could help deliver her into a baby," Vera says in a breath, looking between them and sighing when they nod their reassurance.  "Good, that happened. Also, I know Hindi--sort of.  At least--that's Hindi, right? Sudha got a huge kick out of it when I checked in this morning."
"Yes," Cas answers, tilting his head. "What does 'sort of' mean?"
She makes a face.  "It's coded to someone speaking to me, I think. Didn't even realize it until Sudha started giggling."
Cas says something that Vera responds to immediately, and she sighs.  "Yes, it's probably coded, but we'll check the limits on that.  Can you tell?"
"Not really," she answers with a grimace.  "I mean--not at first.  People's expressions help.  Did I mention the giggling wasn't just Sudha?  Rabin sounds like a five year old girl."
From her discomfort, he's gonna guess this is something she's only going to talk about under duress and that'd be Cas's job.  "How's Sudha?  And Jaya?"
"Great," Vera answers with a relieved smile.  "Jaya's fantastic, already on a meal schedule.  No problems with let-down, either.  Breastfeeding," she says deliberately, eyebrow raised at Dean's expression (he's not sure what it is, but she seems to find it really funny).  "Even under normal circumstances, it can be a problem, especially with new mothers."
Okay, then.  "So you were in the infirmary--"
"Heard it, and heard Dolores making some people really miserable," she says, smile fading.  "Carol?"
"Carol and Kat." Vera's expression hardens.  "And Kyle as source."
"That fucker," she says succinctly, which as far as Dean's concerned isn't bad assessment of his character.  "If there's anything else, any chance I can get some coffee?  Ours is better than the infirmary."
"Cas will fill you in on this morning," he says, meeting his eyes and seeing his nod: everything but the part about Micah being under their protection.  "Be right back."
Dean (not an idiot) brings back three cups, balancing them carefully and ignoring Joelle and Jeremy's grins when they see him; what, he can't be leader of Chitaqua and get people coffee?
When he gets inside, he does a quick assessment and realizes that the meeting is in less than two hours and dropping this on her then isn't going to get him any points.  Handing over two of the cups, he sits down and tries to think how to explain.
"We're meeting in a couple of hours to talk about Micah."  He'll just say it. "He wants protection, and we're gonna give it.  As soon as Naresh clears it--probably early this afternoon but with everything else, who knows--we're moving him here."
Vera's expression doesn't change, looking from him to Cas and then back again.  "This is where you say 'just kidding'."  
"Vera," he starts.
"He's a murderer in intent if not in fact," she says, twisting to look at Cas. "You can't be okay with this."
"Our options are to house him here and give him our protection or risk civilian lives," Cas answers.  "It's the lesser of two terrible options."
"You missed one, a good one," Vera retorts, looking at Dean.  "Throw his ass outside the gate and let him and Erica get re-acquainted.  They were buddies, did you know that?  Got a lot in common, too.  Worked together to try and kill me and Cas, I thought you knew about that? Didn't he tell you or something?"
"I know."  He meets her eyes. "It doesn't change our job description."
Vera wets her lips.  "Cas, could I talk to our fearless leader alone for a minute?"
Cas flickers a glance at him and at his nod, gets to his feet.  "I'll...do something useful not here."
When the door closes, Dean sits back.  "Go ahead."
"Tell me when our job description covered saving a guy who probably is going to Hell soon anyway, so why not let nature take its course?"
"He is," Dean answers steadily. "He's under contract."
"Even better," she spits out.  "I like a guarantee.  Let's get him going now, no reason to wait."
Alicia flashes through his mind.  "Preview of the meeting--"
"If you think I'm coming to that fucking meeting--"
"Vera."  She shuts her mouth, glaring at him.  "He sold his soul with a gun to his head, same reason he was one of the ones that went after you and Cas.  And he's not the only one."
"Ask me," she says flatly, "if I care."
"It's not your job to care," he says.  "But it's mine.  You think I like this?"
"I think you're ordering us to protect--ordering your boyfriend to protect--one of the people who tried to kill him!  Who does that, Dean?"
"He agreed with me."
"If you told Cas to cut his throat, he do it and not even ask why," she retorts, dropping back against the couch, and Dean wonders if he should be glad that her coffee cup is empty so if she throws it at him, at least he won't get wet.  "Jesus, we worked so hard to keep it a secret; what the fuck was the point?  We told you then, nothing would have changed.  We'd still have spent two years with a camp of potential murderers waiting to kill us, but hey, the mission, right?  Now it's 'protecting people'--"
"I'm not inviting him back to Chitaqua!" Dean snaps.  "For fuck's sake, when this is over, he gets a trip to the border and out of Kansas; Erica wants him then, she's welcome to him!"
"What's the difference between now and then?" she demands.  "When this is over, he won't need protection?  He won't ask for it?"
"We won't be guests of this town and he'll be under our authority," Dean answers.  "He confessed: the penalty is exile from Kansas.  When he's ours, he answers for what he did against us, but not until then.  We can't just come into a town and start killing people in it because we don't like 'em."  Especially since they apparently are getting a reputation for that."
"Good leader, right." 
"Okay."  He pulls his sidearm and holds it out.  "Go ahead."
She looks at it like it's covered in Croat. "What?"
"Micah's at Ichabod's prison thing, second floor, end of the hall to the right," he answers.  "They'll let you through.  I saw your marksmanship; you can get him before he even sees the gun."
Her hands clench into tight fists.  "Fuck you."
"What's the difference between me doing it and you?" he asks, holstering it again.  "He wants to walk out there and hand himself over to Erica, fine, I sure as fuck won't stop him.  But any other way, it's murder."
"Never stopped you before," she answers coolly.  "His life worth more than twenty-six innocent people with Croat two days ago, more than Debra, more than every fucking person you killed because they were at the wrong place, wrong time?"
He expected it, thought he was ready for it, but a punch is always a punch, and nothing prepares you for a knife to the gut.  "You're out of line."
"I apologize," she lies.  "Forgot: because Croat, that makes it okay.  So that's it? Mission first, last, and always?"
Rules exist for a reason; some are bullshit, but not all of them, and he's starting to get not only is there a difference, he may not ever know why.  This one, though, he knows in his bones; you can bend some, but some you can't, not and still pretend they exist.  This is one of them; they can't break it and still be hunters. He's not sure they can break it and still be people.  "It has to be."
"Right. New verse, took a while but it's same as the first, I know this one.  Welcome back, Dean Winchester: I didn't miss you at all." She gets to her feet.  "Permission to leave, sir?"
He thinks a lot of things and says none of them.  "Yeah."
Dean hears the door open and close--no slam, very deliberately--and then once again.  Cas eases himself down where Vera was sitting.  "Dean?"
The first time he was shot, it was half an hour before he felt it; until then, the only way he even knew it happened was the blood.  "How much did you hear listening at the door?"
Cas shrugs.  "All of it."  The blue eyes regard him curiously.  "You do realize if you told me to cut my throat, I'd tell you--"
"--to fuck myself," Dean finishes for him, wishing he could at least fake a smile.  "I know." Then, "You'd kill him, wouldn't you?"
"Dean--"
"Not asking my second in command or Cas of Chitaqua," Dean says. "I'm asking an angel of the Lord.  What would you have done?"
Cas tilts his head, and before his eyes, Cas sloughs off all the human trappings between one moment and the next.  An infinite ocean of drowning blue, a sky of stars and galaxies that goes on forever:   "We were the Host.  We had the right of immediate execution for any trespass against my Father's will both in Heaven and on Earth.  By our judgement, his actions merit execution."
Dean blows out a breath.
"Unless ordered to do so, however, we wouldn't have done it."  
Dean looks his 'huh?'; that usually works.
"We have killed great-grandparents to babes barely born," Cas says, the echo of infinity in his eyes and his voice.  "It was our duty and we carried it out; that is what we were.  Micah's sins merit execution, yes, but so do many; only a handful ever felt our wrath." With another shrug, Cas is a slumping militia member again.  "Why, I don't know and don't pretend to."
Dean tries and fails to map that onto anything he can use here.  "That's--I don't even know what that means."
"I think," Cas says thoughtfully, "it means the Host is a terrible role model."
So that didn't help at all, and now he's also confused.  "Right.  Are you okay with this?" What he'll do with the answer, no idea, but he needs to hear it.
"Yes," he answers without hesitation, and Dean wants to believe him so badly he's not sure if he's telling the truth or not.
"He tried to kill you."  
"That would be the reason he's not on my Christmas card list," Cas tells him solemnly, and despite himself, Dean snorts.  "If you wish to know if I'd kill him now...." 
"Well?"
"I want to," he admits.  "Then again, I want to kill all of them, and most are dead."
That's what he figured.  "Yeah--"
"That doesn't mean I should," he interrupts.  "Or that you should, or the militia should be used as a private army bent on vengeance for me or anyone else.  Dean, if you think I expect you to abandon your duty as Chitaqua's commander as well as your ethics as a hunter for me--"
"You think I wouldn't?"
Cas snorts, and Dean's so startled by that he misses Cas getting up until abruptly, he's got almost six feet of former angel straddling his lap and there goes thinking.  "I should have asked first," Cas says, bracing his forearms on Dean's shoulders. "Is this unprofessional while we're on duty?"
He wraps his arms around Cas's waist just in case he tries to do something stupid like move.  "Dude, that's crazy talk.  What if we...run out of chairs?  Sitting on the floor, that shit's unprofessional as hell."
Cas ostentatiously looks around the room.  "I think we have enough chairs--"
"I can fix that."
The knocking at the door only belatedly registers as something he should care about, and Dean wonders how many times in his life this is going to happen. A lot if they keep having meetings in their cabin when they get back to Chitaqua.
Then the door opens, and Dean sees Cas's smile vanish.  Turning his head, one look at Joe's face brings him and Cas both to their feet.
"Something tested the ward line," he says without preamble.  "Teresa doesn't know what."
"We'll be right there," Cas says, which is good because Dean is still working on words.  "I'll get our rifles and meet you in the lobby."
Dean nods.  "Thanks."
Dean scans the horizon from Ichabod's walls and empty road as it trails off into the dip. He never realized until now just how much brush there is, though it's the reason Ichabod's been able to hide for so long.  There's nothing to see, of course: just a snowy late morning.
The quality of the silence tells him that even if he can't see anything, it isn't because there's nothing there to see.
The west-facing wall is solid with those on wall-duty (and some he's pretty sure aren't) straining to see something, and Vera's actually got a fist in Amanda's jacket due to her straining forward like staring hard enough will do the trick and not lead to death-by-falling (or death by whatever may be out there).  They're doing a pretty good job ignoring each other; the reason she came when Joe went to get her can probably be expressed by the words 'Amanda' and 'possible danger'.  As a preview of coming events at the meeting, it wasn't encouraging; it's not like Micah was liked by pretty much anybody, and adding 'attempted murderer' isn't going to help.
"Dean?" Teresa prompts, and glancing at her, he takes in the dark circles under her eyes.  Dropping his gaze to the wall, where even from here he can see the too-thin fingers are starting to tremble, he wonders just how much of a strain the wards have been on her, especially with the Croats two days ago.  She's still not tapping the earth, but all that means is that it's all coming from her.
"Give us a sec."  Beside him, Cas is scanning the area, expression blank, and Dean can actually feel Cas wanting to try his see-everything and end this with an aneurysm, so no. "Anything?"
"Nothing," Cas says finally.  "Teresa, you're sure something touched the ward line here?"
"Only thing that has since the Croats," she answers, voice flat. "Easy to get location when there's nothing else around."  She frowns as she studies the wide open space that was the scene of a lot of fighting two days ago.  "Okay, anyone but me wondering why we haven't been attacked by anything else?  We got, what, a day and a half before it breaks?"
"Dusk tomorrow," Cas agrees, lips tightening.  "There should be some activity by now, yes.  It can be partially explained by the wards; now that you have an anchor to use, they're far stronger, and it makes us far less vulnerable prey.  For many things, the wards can be sensed at some distance"
Right, and that's probably a reason, but not the one Cas doesn't want to say; it's kind of what they aren't saying is probably out here right now, morning after a god was born on earth.  "You think the Misborn scared them off?"  He'll say that part.
"I think that attracting the attention of something that can--and has--killed gods isn't recommended," he answers obliquely.  "At least, not to anything with a modicum of intelligence."
Dean licks his lips and decides to get this over with.  "Cas, are they what tripped the wards?"
"I'm trying very hard not to think that," he answers grimly.  "Vera, did you see James' team this morning?  They don't go on duty until this evening, but I suspect Nate might have wanted to check on the baby."
"They were still in the infirmary when I left," she answers.  "They were helping one of the other women get settled; she's due tonight, I should check on her when we're done here."
Dean looks at Teresa, who shrugs helplessly.  "Could Alison--"
"Dean," Cas says quietly.
Following Cas's gaze, he sees a slim figure in red standing just short of the ward line, dramatically giving no shits she's in a sleeveless dress while standing in about a foot of snow, icy wind barely moving her hair.  He'll give her this much; she knows how to make an entrance.
"Erica," Amanda says softly, automatically shifting half in front of Vera as she stiffens and takes a step back, and Dean hears a safety pulled.  Glancing over, he sees Amanda's eyes narrowing, her sidearm in her hand, and worse their two teams of recruits are close enough to see it.
"Stand down," Dean murmurs, checking the area behind Erica and not seeing anything, which means jack shit.  As if aware of them watching--and by that, he knows she is--she tips her head just enough to feel like she's staring into the eyes of everyone watching her.  "Cas, what are the chances she's alone?"
"She's not," he murmurs back.  "Two on her left, one to her right, twenty feet and sixteen respectively."
"You can see 'em?"
"Don't need to," Amanda answers from Cas's other side.  "They're there.  Question is, who?"
Dean starts to say 'demons', then realizes what she meant: members of Chitaqua.  Ichabod is turning into the worst family reunion in history.
The silence breaks with a word, projected effortlessly despite the distance.  "Castiel."
Dean fights the impulse to step in front of him so she can't see him.  "Go ahead," he murmurs at Cas's glance.
"What do you want?" Even Dean's impressed by the way Cas can make a four word question sound like trumpets should be playing and a chorus getting involved for the grand finale.  A quick glance confirms those who only heard about Cas being an angel just got an idea of what it must have been like when Gabriel--fuck him--decided it was time to let Mary in on the entire Jesus thing; it's kind of funny, and he files it away for later appreciation.
"To talk."  No coy demurrals or saccharine word games: even the way she's standing--straight backed, chin up, gaze direct--isn't like any demon he's ever met.  It is, however, a lot like a hunter stands, evaluating the situation and working out how to handle it. He can easily see her in old jeans and a faded army jacket on a hunt, holding a rifle and watching the backs of her team as they watch hers.  "What are your terms?"
Dean sucks in a surprised breath.  "She's gotta be kidding."
"I don't think she is," Cas answers, barely a breath, but something in his voice makes Dean look at him sharply.  Raising his voice, he asks her, "What are yours?"
"A truce will be in effect from the moment of your agreement and continue until you are again standing where you are now and verify its end," Erica answers, voice clear.  "The Crossroads itself will enforce the terms as confirmed by the Host."
"It's a trick," Amanda says, which is exactly what Dean was thinking.  "You don't think--"
"Hold up," Joe interrupts, shouldering between Amanda and Cas to look down at him curiously.  "Crossroads can do that when it's not a contract?"
"It's very much a contract, simply not one for our souls," Cas answers, meeting Dean's eyes in reminder.
"We're not falling for that!" Amanda exclaims.  "She's fucking with us."
"She isn't," Cas responds.  "At least, not in this.  Crossroads oversees all contracts, and those for souls are only a part, albeit a large one.  She wouldn't invoke it if she wasn't serious."
"It's Erica," Amanda argues. "What difference--"
"So everything--the terms, the participants--have to be accepted for it to work?" Joe asks, like it matters or something, sine they're not doing this.
"Yes," Cas starts.
"Right," Joe interrupts.  "Cas, don't say another word; I'll handle it."
"Why?"
"Because if we're gonna do this, I should do it," Joe says, startling Dean.  "By 'we', I mean, me, not you.  You're not a negotiator, Cas."
"Do you think I haven't had to deal with demons before?" Cas asks.
"You have done contract negotiations with a demon?" Joe asks, crossing his arms and raising his eyebrows in not even polite disbelief. "Or you were in the room--or multidimensional space--where it was happening?"
Cas's eyes narrow, but noticeably, he doesn't answer.
"That's what I thought," Joe says.  "Lots of fighting and looking fierce--hey not knocking it, you're good those--but zero sitting at the negotiation table, am I right?"  Joe stares at Cas until he reluctantly nods.  "Nothing--and I do mean nothing--is simple when it comes to contract.  Me, I've had a gun to my head and still walked away with what I needed and that's not even an exaggeration." He pauses, frowning.  "Can I do it for you?  I mean, can you appoint me to represent the Host here even if I'm human?  To confirm, I mean?  I assume that's how this works."
"Tell him," Dean says, curious where Joe is going with this; its' not like they're going to actually do it, so why not? Especially since hey, no Host.
"Castiel," Erica interrupts, right on schedule.  "I require an answer."
"Yes, the Host can appoint a representative; can you imagine Michael deigning to speak to a demon?"  No one can, as it turns out, even Dean, who kind of met the guy.  "Gabriel did it when he was among us, though Zachariah--Joseph, what are you--"
"Appoint me," Joe interrupts.  "Cas, not joking here: I'm human, does it matter?"
Cas stares at him, and after a moment, Dean identifies that look as 'humans are sometimes rather slow'.  "Humans have at one time or another represented my Father on earth.  Does that answer your question?"
Joe grins.  "It does.  Okay, tell me what to do to get us a little time."
"Just tell her," Cas says, starting to look curious. "She can accept or deny it, but if she truly wants to speak to us, she'll agree."
"Okay--" Joe starts to turn toward the wall.
"Don't use your name."
"She knows my name...." He trails off when he sees Cas's face and nods before turning back to face Erica.  "As appointed representative of the Host, do you accept my authority to speak for them?"
Erica doesn't hesitate.  "I do."
"We are requesting a moment to consult," Joe tells her, projecting effortlessly in what Dean assumes is his negotiation voice: calm, clear, and really certain of getting his way.  "Ten minutes, at which time you can consider our silence a rejection of your offer.  Do you agree to our request?"
"We?" Dean mutters and gets a stern look from Cas.  "'We' sound ridiculous, for the record."
"It's a--"
"Figure of speech, I know," he says, rolling his eyes.
"I do," Erica answers, a thread of amusement in her voice. "This is a one-time offer; I won’t ask again."
Joe nods, stepping back as she vanishes into the brush in a flicker of red, and looks at Dean and Cas thoughtfully.  "That was interesting."
"Do you have any idea what you're doing?" Dean demands.
"I'm curious as well," Teresa admits, cocking her head.  "In case this isn't obvious, we discourage suicide missions.  In case that's relevant."
"It is," Dean says firmly, glaring at Joe and Cas.  "Well?"
"Yeah, I do.  Some things don't change, and this is one of them."  Joe looks at Cas.  "This is contract.  She wouldn't pull this unless it was serious."
"Doesn't matter if she is."  Cas looks at Dean in surprise.  "There's nothing she's got to say that's worth sending Cas outside these walls alone."
"Then we specify I don't go alone," Cas says (tone: 'humans are rather slow', thanks, Cas), which is exactly the kind of shit Dean really hates to hear.  He can almost see how much Amanda is fighting the urge to jump up and down and say she's in, because Cas didn't just pass on skills when he trained her; he passed on all his crazy, too.  "An escort is always considered acceptable and is protected under the terms of the truce."
Dean wants to point out what happened the last time Cas went on a playdate with a demon and doesn't; that's for later.  "You're kidding, right?"
"If we want to try, I can work with this," Joe says, looking between them.  "You two need a minute?"
"Yeah, thanks.  Everyone, back a few steps, pretend not to eavesdrop," Dean says, going a few steps away and waiting for Cas impatiently before whispering, "Tell me what you're thinking."
Cas steps close enough that his hip is pressed to Dean's, lips hovering close enough for Dean to feel his breath against his ear.  "I want to see her expression when she sees you."
That's not the answer he expected to hear. "What?"
"Lucifer announced Dean's death to all of Hell; that means she knows as well," Cas answers.  "I'm certain Alicia was unbearably tempting, but surely Erica could have spared a few moments to express some form of surprise that among those bravely running away from an army of Croats was a living, panting refutation of what she knows as true."
"Fuck you, it was over two miles…." Dean huffs a breath, annoyed, but he's got a point.  "That's why you want to talk to her?"
"I think she has something to say that we need to hear--"
"She really doesn't."
"But whether she does or not, if she fails to get our attention this way, I'm fairly certain we don't want to see what alternate methods she might resort to."  Dean scowls, but Jesus, they've gotten bit in the ass enough, and mostly by shit they didn't even actually do.  "If you have a better idea...."
Yeah, that trail off is helpful. 
"You're not really considering this?" Vera demands abruptly, and it's only his iron nerves and cat-like reflexes that keep him from jumping.  Much.  "Why the hell would you risk your lives on her word?"
"Private consultation going on here!" Dean says, but Cas steps back anyway.  "Okay, Joe, Cas, explain the risks here.
"If I'm right, there's not any unless we break the terms," Joe answers as Teresa joins them. 
"He's partially correct," Cas agrees and may be the only one surprised by the fact hearing that does nothing for Vera at all except up the incredulity to critical.  "There is always the risk that we make or accept bad terms, however."
"Which is why I'm doing it," Joe says, and no, not helping.
"But okay, we're missing something here," Dean says, wondering if he's the only one who noticed this. "She said the Host had to confirm it.  The Host isn't here."
Joe and Cas exchange a weird look before Joe says, "Yeah, and yet, she accepted me as their representative."
"But...." Dean honestly doesn't know what to say to that.  "They aren't here to tell you that you can."
"Cas said I could."
"I did," Cas agrees, like that's supposed to reassure them all.
"She's going to kill all of you!" Vera exclaims, and almost immediately shuts her eyes with a pained expression while Cas straightens like someone just shoved a broom up his ass.  "Oh God, start over--"
"You think," Cas says in the precise tones of imminent homicide, "that a demon barely off the rack who, despite my repeated attempts at correction, never did quite manage to remember to protect her left and believed the best defense was to pretend she didn't need one--"
"Here we go," Amanda mutters, rubbing her forehead.  "Jesus, Vera."
"--would be dangerous to me or anyone with me?" Cas continues, voice rising.  "Two days ago, I killed a Hellhound in single combat and a number of Croats. If that isn't enough--"
"I'm so sorry," Vera murmurs to Amanda, who looks like she's getting a migraine.
"--less than seven years ago, I fought in a forty year siege in Hell.  I won't elucidate, for modesty demands I don't go into detail regarding my accomplishments during my time there, but suffice to say they were well above 'adequate'."
"He won," Dean admits during the pause Cas gives him to do just that and hopes no one asks for details. "The whole siege thing, technically.  Killed lots of demons, it was pretty epic."
"Mortality has required some adjustments, yes--" Cas continues.
"Sorry," Vera says sincerely.  "You have no idea how much."
"--but despite that, I've managed to survive this long, so I must be doing something right," Cas finishes with vicious satisfaction.  "Anyone else wish to express doubts on my competence?"
No one does: what a surprise.  "You think that she won't try to get around the terms, whatever they are?"  Dean asks before Cas decides a history of his personal bloodshed may now be required; that could take forever (actually, literally forever).
"She's a demon, and for that matter Erica; treachery is to be expected.  However, for one, she'll be limited by the terms, and two...."
"She really wants to talk," Dean finishes glumly.  "At least, you think so."
He meets Cas's eyes and remembers what he promised about listening, even if he didn't agree.  That doesn't mean he has to change his mind when he listens to why he should, but it implies he'll be honest with them both on whether his reasons not to are better.  Jerking his head toward Joe, he ignores Vera's incredulous expression. "Joe?"
"We can do this," Joe answers confidently.
"You don't," Vera argues, "even know all the terms! Or made any, for that matter!"
"Here's what I know," Joe says, with an inflection that really makes Dean wonder what he's thinking.  "She's Crossroads, which means when it comes to contract, everything she says counts, and they can do everything and anything but lie.  What she agrees to, Crossroads has to enforce and the Host confirms, and that includes breach, am I right?"  Cas nods, blue eyes narrowing thoughtfully at Joe's grin.  "We're good. Dean, trust me."
Like those aren't famous last words.  Sure, trust him, he can do that, but it's with Cas.  "Cas?"
"Yes," he says without hesitation.  
Okay, then.  "Do it."
"What?" Vera explodes.
"Cas was right; if we refuse and she wants our attention, she'll find a way to get it, and me, I really don't want to find out.  If we're gonna do this, we need a pro, and I'd bet on Joe against the Crossroads any day."
Joe smiles at him in surprised pleasure. "Thanks."
"Teresa?" he asks, because sure, they could all go over the wall and look stupid (no one is going to top Cas's performance, they'll look even stupider trying), or you know, ask her to order the gate opened.
She tilts her head, brown eyes unreadable.  "I'll give the order.  She shouldn't cross the ward line, though."
Well, yeah.  "Got it," he answers, and she smiles oddly before starting toward the gate to give the order.
"Escorts are me, you, and Amanda," Dean tells Joe.  "We got five minutes; Cas, Joe, you two talk about terms.  We'll wait.  And don't get us killed."
"Those are the terms acceptable to the Host," Joe finishes, watching Erica.  "We await your answer; what say you?"
The terms are pretty straightforward--by that, he means Joe sounds like a lawyer who's getting paid by the word--but what Dean can't get over is how they're all talking like weird people. "'What say you'?" he mutters.  "Where the hell are you getting this?  Sorry, 'we' getting this?" 
Joe's left eye twitches but he keeps his gaze on Erica.
"The Host confirms," Cas agrees, which seems kind of pointless--Joe's rep for the Host, right?--but who is Dean to question?  Their leader, right: that should help more than it does.
"Accepted," Erica answers. "The truce has begun; you have ten minutes to arrive or I'll consider it broken."
From the corner of his eye, Dean sees Erica do her vanishing act, but he's way too focused on the fact that Joe's smirking.
"Okay, what?" he asks, wondering if he needs to ask or just watch how this plays out.  "Gonna share with the class?"
"We have ten minutes to be outside the gate and begin to talk or we're in breach of the truce," Cas says, turning to look at him.  "We should probably not risk delay."
Vera's expression darkens, but she bites her lip against whatever she was going to say.
"Vera," he says, and the look she gives him says really shitty things will happen if he ever makes the mistake of getting sick again, "get Alicia.  Brief her on the way; I want her up here by the time we start talking."
She hesitates, then nods shortly, giving Amanda long look before starting toward the ladder.
"Everyone ready?" He's not, but whatever.  "Let's get down there."
Erica's expression when she appears at the ward line the moment the gate closes behind them is probably exactly what Cas wanted to see, and it tells Dean two things: one, she really was distracted by Alicia two days ago, and two, she knows exactly who he is.  A complicated knot of emotion clouds her eyes as she looks at him, and for a moment, he almost forgets she's a demon and not a hunter looking at the doppelganger of her dead leader.  A hunter who came to Chitaqua to find some way to fight Lucifer after her entire family was murdered in front of her by her boyfriend, after she spent a couple of days trapped under his body in a pool of blood while everyone she loved rotted around her.
Ten feet short of the ward line, Dean comes to a stop beside Cas, Joe and Amanda having stopped half-way between the ward line and Ichabod's walls and not subtly fanning out enough to keep him and Cas as well as Erica and anyone who might be hiding behind her somewhere in sight.  Not that Erica seems to notice or care; the brown eyes flicker to oily black and back in endless succession as she stares at him, lips parting in the shape of his name before she closes her eyes.
"Erica," Cas says quietly, and the black-slicked eyes focus on Cas with something that's hatred and rage and bitter regret and none of them.  
"Cas," she says, and the intimacy of the nickname brings home who she used to be.  She was Dean Winchester's trusted lieutenant and Alicia's team leader and an assassin who killed in Dean's name everyone who wouldn't sell their soul for him, but before that, she was a woman who showed up in Chitaqua and became Cas's student to learn to be a hunter.  "How did you finally recognize me?"
"You were the first in your class to understand speed was only a weapon," he answers.  "And like any weapon, you could learn how to counter it."
"The first thing you taught me," she says, the black receding for dark brown iris and pupil, but what looks at them isn't any more human, "is we should be willing to pay any price to win.  I guess it's true; those who can't do, teach."  
"And yet, you dramatically missed the point," Cas answers.  "Payment rendered is and must always be from yourself alone.  You never had the right to force others to make payment for you."
"Is that what you want to talk about?" Dean asks casually.  Erica's lips curl in a sneer before she makes a visible effort, expression smoothing over.  "If not, get to the point."
"Micah," she answers, still looking at Cas. "He made contract like the rest of us, and he's in breach."
"He's not," Castiel answers, "or you wouldn't be here."
She cocks her head, studying Cas for a moment, eyes flickering to Dean briefly and then back to Cas.  "He's the reason, isn't he?"
Dean stills, forcing himself not to look back to see how close Amanda and Joe are, and sees her slow smile.  Raising a hand, she snaps her fingers.
Without thinking, he reaches for his rifle.  "What--"
"Just need some privacy," she says mockingly.  "I thought you might prefer it." 
"How considerate of you," Cas answers, sounding bored, but his body language, while alert, isn't 'danger' and Dean makes himself dial it down.  "I would be interested in knowing the reason."
"I need answers not couched in euphemisms," she answers impatiently.  "If anyone would know what's going on, it's you, and you're sober enough to make sense.  For once.  Consider this payment for it."
"Micah isn't in breach, because the contract didn't specify which Dean Winchester's death would fulfill the terms." Her lips tighten.  "A Crossroad contract is for all intents and purposes unbreakable, but the price the Crossroads pays for writing and enforcing the terms is that any ambiguity favors the other party.  That apparently holds true for the Apocalypse as well."  He raises an eyebrow.  "I assume asking Crowley why he didn't send anyone for Micah once the barrier was weak enough for a successful summoning didn't occur to you."
"It's not as if he knows anything," she answers contemptuously.  "He's weak."
"Crowley is King of the Crossroads," Dean says mildly.  Erica's eyes flicker to black again, which he guesses is her shitty attempt to pretend he's not here.  "All you see is what he wants you to, and me, I'd wonder why that's what he wants you to see."
"How many of you does Crowley have right now?" Cas asks.
She smiles.  "Nice try.  If you don't know how many people still in Chitaqua want you dead, I'm not going to enlighten you."
"If I'd truly feared for my life, I would have killed you all two years ago," Cas says with a slow smile.  "Did you ever wonder why I didn't?"
"You were--"
"Killing you would have taken moments; enjoyable, yes, but over almost before it began.  Alive, I had the satisfaction of watching all of you for two long years never have a single peaceful night of sleep, never spend an hour, a minute, a single second without being reminded that I could kill all of you and Dean would believe any explanation I chose to give.  Knowing every time you saw Vera, saw me, you thought all I was waiting for was one of you to give me an excuse. I wasn't; I was simply having fun."
The black-filmed eyes are filled with hate, and for a moment, Dean think he can almost see the memory of a fear that dogged every moment of her life until Kansas City and her death. 
"The only thing I regret," she says softly, "is that you survived that night and we didn't try again."
"How strange: I regret nothing at all."  Cas holds her eyes, Dean feels a flash of rage coalesce, focusing on her.  Through the chill rush, he belatedly realizes it's not his own at the same time he feels a knife hilt in his hand. "Except, perhaps, that it was not my hand that placed you on the rack and saw to your re-education."
"You couldn't--"
"I could," Cas says softly, and Dean hears remembered pleasure in his voice, and even better, so does she, even if she has no idea where it's coming from.  "There's so much I would have liked to try."
She wets her lips.  "I'd love to see you try."
"If Dean could only see you now," Cas says softly, mocking.  "His loyal lieutenant: he would put a bullet in your head and cut you throat with Ruby's knife."
"He wanted to win."
"Do you think he would have ever asked that of you?  That he would have wanted it?"
"He didn't need to ask," she says.  "To help him, my soul was nothing.  Would have been cheap at twice the price."
"And everyone else's was of worth even less," Cas replies.  "All of that, and you still failed."
Dean thinks of Vera, who sat calmly in Cas's cabin that night, trusting Cas's word to keep her safe from thirty-five people on their way to kill them both; Carol, in that bed with all her guns, refusing painkillers for a leg nearly ripped apart, waiting for the team leaders she left Chitaqua to escape to finally come to kill her; the list of people who might have died or lost their souls if Cas and Vera hadn't survived that night, and every person who sold their soul with a gun to their head at the crossroads and every person they killed for refusing to say yes.  And Andy on the clock, marking the seconds he had to live before either a needle or Croatoan took his life.
"How did you know who Dean was?" Cas asks her.
"I know the difference between a cheap knockoff and the genuine article."  She looks at Dean briefly before returning her attention to Castiel. "I remember him.  From before.  Is he why you survived?  To save him?  Why him and not Dean?"
"Dean didn't want to be saved," he answers simply. "Neither did I.  None of us who went to Kansas City meant to survive; that's why we agreed to go."
"We were all willing to do anything to help him," she says.  "Not you, though; you wouldn't do shit for him.  But now.…" She swallows, and the flash of the hunter she could have been is there.  "Everything Dean wanted you to do, to be, and now you're doing it, all for a shitty Xerox of the real thing.  You didn't deserve how Dean felt about you."
"No, I didn't," Cas tells her, the smile fading.  "Nor did you. He deserved better than any of us."
Lips tight, Erica straightens.  "I want Micah," she says, black-filmed eyes focusing on Cas.  
"I want to kill you," Dean tells her.  "Looks like neither of us are gonna get what we want."
"Do you?"  To his surprise, she turns to look at him, brown eyes studying him like fingers crawling over his skin, every touch leaving a slimy trail behind; it's an effort to keep from shuddering.  "Cas is right, you know," she says abruptly. "Demon part, though, Dean wouldn't even care; going after Cas would have gotten me a bullet to the head on sight, do not pass go and talk about our feelings.  I wouldn't have risked this if it was him here, but you...you're reasonable."
Dean tries not to flinch.  "I'm not him."
"No shit," she answers, meeting his eyes.  "I took the first shot at Cas's head, did you know that?  And thirteen more before I stopped counting."
"Your attempt at baiting leaves much to be desired," Cas says, projecting near-death boredom. "It's not going to work."
"So you noticed, too?" Dean sucks in a breath and she smiles in satisfaction.  "You're not even real, you know that, right?  The life you live will always be his, and when anyone looks at you, he's who they'll always see."
"I won't," Cas says calmly over the roaring in his ears.  
"You don't need to worry I'll ever tell anyone who you really are," Erica continues, still staring at Dean.  "Do you know why?"
"Because you want to win," Dean tells her; somewhere inside her is and will always be the woman trapped in that basement beneath her dead boyfriend, surrounded by dead bodies and slowly going insane.  Even the rack couldn't burn out that rage and horror and grief; nothing it could do would get past those memories and touch her, not until...not until it gave her a reason to want it to.  It couldn't take the memories, but it could reshape her around them; in the very bowels of the Pit, in the domain of Lucifer himself, the rack created a demon with no other purpose but to destroy him and formed to do just that.  "And I'm stopping the Apocalypse so you have time."
"That's all you're good for, Xerox: existing," she agrees.  "Until we don't need that anymore, though...even in Hell there are pleasures to be found, and one of them will be in knowing every hour, every minute, every second of your life here until the moment of your death, you'll live in a camp and lead a militia that can't and will never be yours.  Dean recruited them, taught them, and they loved him; you, they don't even know and don't care.  They're following him; all you are is what's wearing his skin.  It covers you up so well they'll never see you at all.  Nothing you have wasn't his first and always will be."  She grins.  "I'd keep your secret forever, Xerox, just for that."
The sound of a gunshot in close proximity gets him breathing as well as his full attention.  Beside him, Cas coolly lowers his handgun as Erica staggers backward, clutching her belly with fingers already stained the same red of her dress.  
"Cas…." he starts, remembering what he said about the truce and Crossroads enforcing the penalty all at once, but he's interrupted by Erica's laugh as she pulls her hands away from the growing stain on her dress.  
"You just breached the truce to do that?"
"Five," Cas says.  "Four.  Three."
"I'm gonna love seeing you on the rack," she says gloatingly, taking a step toward the ward line.  "When you--"
"One," Cas finishes.
"What--" Abruptly, Erica doubles over, clutching her stomach with a breathless sound that might have wanted to be a scream if she could get any air for it.  Head snapping up, she stares at him, mouth working soundlessly.
"The most dangerous thing in the universe is knowledge without context," Cas says, sliding his gun back into the holster and crossing to the ward line as Erica falls to her knees, bent nearly in half.  Looking down at her, he tilts his head, and for a moment, shadows like retinal burn seem to flare around Cas in echoes of great wings spread wide.  "You summoned the Host of your own free will; surely you cannot quibble when we claim our rights on earth."
She glares up at him, spitting out a mouthful of blood. "You.  Aren't.  The Host."
"Weren't you paying attention?" Cas asks, dropping into a crouch and smiling into her eyes.  "You asked for the Host to confirm; we did. You accepted it, and us; that is contract."
Looking back, Dean sees Joe watching with a faint, unmistakable smile.
"Crossroads wrote the terms, but ambiguity always favors the other party.  Traditionally, the Host has the right of judgment, and we claim it now; we judge our actions did not break the truce, and no penalty shall be applied.  You are not dead, nor maimed, nor is there permanent damage, though a hollow point bullet filled with holy water breaching the sciatic nerve must be very painful."  Pushing to his feet, he adds over his shoulder. "We'll wait, of course. We have decided your current state is not a breach of contract."
As Cas joins him again, Dean looks at him, shaken and not sure why. "How did you know--"
"Joseph was correct; he's a far better negotiator than I am," Cas murmurs, and Dean watches incredulously as they exchange a smile.  "Joseph asked me to name him representative and I agreed; when he told Erica the Host appointed him, she didn't argue the point. The Host, of course, could dispute my right to claim membership, but as you might be aware, they aren't here."
"So she basically agreed you were the Host and Crossroads believed her."  Dean takes in his expression.  "You didn't mention that during the explanation up there."
"I didn't know," Cas explains.  "At least, not for certain." 
"You risked breaking contract--"
"Of course not," he interrupts, making a face.  "Joseph knew, and I trusted his judgment.  I was following your recommendation to trust humanity; you were right.  Again.  Well done."
Dean looks at Erica, who's slowly getting to her feet, face ashen, then at Cas.  "We'll talk about this later."
She walks up to the ward line, so close he can see sparks forming, tiny swarms of fireflies glowing around her feet.  Then abruptly, she focuses on Dean.  "I could be wrong about you."
"Erica," Cas says, "if there's nothing else--"
"There is," she interrupts, never looking away from Dean. "I could be wrong about you, so let's find out."  She tilts her chin toward Joe and Amanda and snaps her fingers.  "Time for them to join the party."
Dean swallows in a dry throat before saying, "Joe, Amanda.  Looks like Erica's finally ready to get to the point."
She waits until they join them; a glance shows Joe, standing on the other side of Cas, is keeping his expression neutral, but Amanda's next to Dean, and she can't quite, tension so strong he's getting a stress high.
"How's your eye?" Amanda asks brightly, and Dean sees Cas's smile spread across her face.  "Wanna try for a matched set?"
"Micah made contract with the Crossroads of his own free will," Erica says, eyes skimming over Amanda too quickly to be as casual as she obviously wants to be.  Two decades on the rack and a demon to boot, but she died still afraid of Amanda, like she was of Cas, and that will never change now. "I'm here to claim him."
"Dean's not dead," Amanda says, and Dean sees her cocking her head curiously.  "Micah's golden until--what, ten years or Dean's death?"
"That's not what she's talking about, though," Joe says slowly, shifting his gun, and Erica's eyes fix on him in surprise.  "This isn't official action, that we know, but you went after Micah the first chance you got.  This is personal."
"You have no idea what you're talking about...." She trails off, and Dean follows her frozen gaze to see a figure standing on the wall just above the gate.  As if she were watching for just that, Alicia leans forward, bracing one hand on the battlement, and even from here, Dean can see the glint of metal between her thumb and first finger of her right hand.  He doesn't think anyone can make a plus one hundred foot throw--much less have any accuracy doing it--but on the other hand, he wouldn't want to test that if he was the one Alicia was looking at.
Everything Erica's said, and finally, Dean remembers that demons can lie with the absolute truth.  This is personal.
"I forgot," Cas says into the near-perfect silence.  "Alicia sends her regards."
Erica jerks her gaze back to them.  "Everyone who made contract first swore obedience to the team leaders through me. His life belongs to us; I'm claiming it here and now."
Joe shifts his rifle against his shoulder again.  "Why here and now, though?  That's what I'm wondering."
The brush behind her begins to shift, dappled light flashing on jeans and blurred ovals of faces vanishing too quickly to count or even tell apart, but every pair of eyes is the slicked in black.  He feels Cas still, Amanda's soft curse, something Joe says that may be Yiddish but he can guess the meaning without needing a translation, but even without them, he knows who they are.
"Six, seven, eight," Amanda counts out loud, and there's no mistaking Erica's startlement or the pulse of hatred in Amanda's voice.  "Cross the ward line, I fucking dare you."
For a moment, Dean thinks Erica just might.
"And if we don't give him to you?" Dean asks quickly, before Joe turns creepy, too, and he has an entire matched set of crazy people taunting demons at the ward line.  "It's not like you can get inside Ichabod to get him if we say no."
"That's true," she answers, and Dean sees Joe go still.  "In which case, we'll leave at dawn without him."
"Dawn?" Joe asks unexpectedly, throwing Dean a look that practically screams 'shut up', but it's not like he doesn't get the significance; that's when the Misborn will be able to cross the barrier.
"I have some time."  Joe's expression goes blank as she looks at Dean again, smile back in place like it never left.  "I already know what you aren't," she says softly.  "It'll be interesting to find out, however, exactly what you are. See you soon." After a calculated pause, she adds, "Please give Stephanie my love as well."
Taking a step back, she and the other figures melt into the darkness, and the quiet around them tells him that wherever they are now, it's not here.  
Turning on Joe and Cas, Dean glares at them. "What--"
"Not here," Joe interrupts, looking at Cas, who nods with an expression Dean can't read.  "Dean, just trust me; let's go.  Now."
Dean nods, staring back toward the gate. "Amanda, go to Admin and tell Alison we want Micah now.  Joe, grab Vera and Alicia and meet us at HQ."
@@@@@@
--Day 157, continued--

After a quick stop in the mess for two cups of coffee, Dean leaves word with Jeremy in case they're a little late and sends Joelle to find Kamal and tell him to meet them in the Situation Room before he and Cas go to the infirmary.  At his nod, Cas goes to the third floor to check on Sudha and brief James's team while Dean finds Dolores between emergencies and holds out one of the cups with a smile.  Her expression tells him that yeah, infirmary coffee really is that bad.
"You're good," she says, taking it gratefully and nodding him back to the small break room after checking on Karl.  From the look of both of them, they've been on their feet since dawn.  "I'll ask now; any chance I can get Vera and Alicia this afternoon?  Forever would be great, but I'll take anything."
"I'm not sure about Alicia," he prevaricates.  "Vera, yeah: I know she wants to be here for one of the woman delivering anyway.  Everything okay?" He would have heard about another catalyst event by now, but it looked really busy out there.
"Just everything that can go wrong with a lot of people in not enough space," she answers, closing the door before dropping into the nearest chair.  "And something new.  Waste management is working overtime trying to get the rest of the pumps up, and it's not like we knew what we were doing when we brought it up a couple of years ago." She sighs, taking a long drink.  "So to avoid breaking it altogether while we figure out what to do, we're going medieval on everything north of Fifth--chamberpots and latrines for everyone.  There was an accident trying to build a shelter over the latrines near the new building on Seventh.  Nothing too serious--worst was a broken arm--but...."
They're at latrines now.  "I bet that didn't go over well."
"Alison made the announcement at all the shelters," Dolores answers tiredly, rubbing her forehead.  "Said it could have been worse: no one stoned her, but she figured that was because all the rocks are covered in snow. Hopefully, it'll be a temporary measure: one good thing, we got several volunteers from the refugees who had some experience with sanitation and jumped when they heard about it.  Pretty sure Tony was crying when he hugged them."
Despite himself, he grins. 
"Next up: everything that goes wrong with a lot of people, not enough space, and challenges in sanitary conditions.  Just know now, we're going to try and bribe Vera to leave Chitaqua and come here," Dolores says wryly.  "Karl and I are making up a benefit package, may include worship and offerings of anything she wants, and I do mean anything."
Considering his talk with Vera earlier, that's kind of concerning.  "I'll try thinking up a counteroffer."
"For the record...." she starts in a different voice, and he knows where this is going.
"Not your fault." He scowls at her as he grabs a second chair and sits down.  "It was one of ours who started it."
Dolores checks her drink, looking at him dubiously. "Dean--"
"Kyle found out about it," he says.  "I got confirmation from Alicia that she told him, and considering it was in our mess this morning, Kat is Chitaqua source.  Carol was for here, I'm guessing."
Dolores's lips tighten.  "She didn't deny it, no.  Even if Kyle was source, mine knew better than to listen, much less spread the word.  I apologize, Dean, and tell Alicia everyone involved will be doing the same to her personally."  She pauses to take another drink like she's bracing herself.  "Which is the second reason I'd like her here, at least for a couple of hours.  I don't want this to go an inch further; everyone sees her here working with patients just like always, that will do half the work."
"Will she be okay?" he asks bluntly. "I mean, not a knife in her gut here, but...."
"Yes," she answers. "Karl can make a public request for her help; she's further along in surgical technique than anyone other than Vera, and I think he'd genuinely like her here to take over a case later this afternoon. I think he also wants to hug her, so two birds, one stone.  All regular staff think the same, if you're worried about that; she won't get shit from anyone about it."  She clutches her cup, dark eyes bleak.  "It's for us, too; isolation is privileged, and we...both sides have to know it's something we have to do and once done, it's over.  I can't let this become...it's already impossible, what we have to do.  The secrecy just makes it a little easier for everyone to live with."
Christ, it just keeps getting worse.  "Send word to HQ officially; I'll talk to her.  I can't promise anything, though."
"If she can't, tell her I don't blame her, and no one else does, either.  She didn't deserve this."  Making an effort, Dolores smiles at him.  "I thought you'd be more pissed, honestly."
"Our guy--and our former woman," he reminds her. "Speaking of, how's Carol?"
Her expression darkens, and Dean feels for her; she's head of the hospital, Carol's her patient and under her care, and how you feel personally can't affect how you do your job.  That doesn't make it fun, though.  "My examination this morning confirms; gangrene's spreading fast, and there's no going back."
"How long...."
"We can--maybe, no promises--still remove the leg, good chance nothing has spread farther or it's not critical yet, but now surviving the surgery itself is up in the air.  She's not in good shape anyway, and every hour drops her chances; I'd give it twelve hours before we're past the point of no return.  This isn't a real ER, Dean, and no one but Vera's ever even been in a real OR; we'd be doing something none of us have ever even seen done before, and it was risky before." 
Dean tries to steel himself against sympathy, but Jesus Christ, that's a shitty way to die.  "And after the twelve hours?"
"Three days to a week," she answers.  "I'm guessing from statistics here.  I have her on broad spectrum antibiotics now, but that only slows the progress at best, and that's not gonna help much longer.  Tonight, I'll need to find out what her wishes are for what happens next and how long she wants to wait.  She can do the administration herself if she wants, or I can do it at a pre-appointed time; it'll be up to her."
Croat's not the only thing where cutting it short is the kindest method. A needle or a gun: there's not that much of a difference .  Reaching out, he takes her free hand and squeezes it.  "I'm sorry."
She smiles faintly, mouth trembling.  "No one likes to lose a patient, and like this....  Karl and I have a standard talk for it now; I can almost do it in my sleep.  Haven't had to use it too often, but once...once is too much."  He nods, watching as she straightens her shoulders from the tired slouch: a professional in every sense of the word.  "So, anything else I can help you with?"
Dean debates only a moment; it's not his business, but fuck his life, it just might be.  "Cathy been volunteering in the infirmary?"
"Yes," she answers in surprise.  "Lewis and Alicia convinced her to take a few shifts, get her out of her building and around people, do her some good.  I wasn't sure about her being with Sudha last night, but it turns out...." She searches his face.  "Dean?"
"She canceled on Alicia this morning."  He takes a drink of his coffee. "She ever assigned to Carol?"
"Not specifically," she answers, eyes distant.  "Mostly pre-LVN work like I'd give someone still in school, assist the nurses, do checks on the patients in case they need anything...dammit." Her jaw tightens.  "She was escort for Carol coming back last night, forgot about that; said Carol wasn't that bad, just needed someone to listen."
"Seriously?" he blurts out and winces.  "Sorry, I--long morning.  Something."
She waves a hand.  "That explains how it got around so fast here but didn't get to the YMCA--Lewis already slammed through his staff, couldn’t find anything." She bites her lip.  "Dean, look, if there'd been anyone else that day, I wouldn't have let one of yours--"
"Alicia volunteered because that's her job," he interrupts. "Helping is what we do."  He hesitates then barrels ahead, because why the fuck not?  "Look, since we can talk about it now--what happened?"
"We gave them a sedative when they were brought in," she says quietly.  "Just to keep them calm, so their parents--that part went right."  Her hands close around the cup tightly.  "Fifth hour--we estimated--I went to talk to the parents, and--they wanted to wait it out.  Technically, I can override when it's Croat, but I haven't yet.  I don't know if it's better or worse for them, only they can decide that.  So another sedative to keep them calm, I ordered them restrained, and told them about two hours."
Gently, he pries the cup from her other hand and squeezes them both, trying to warm the cold fingers.
"We underestimated by about an hour," she continues.  "It happens, but my volunteer got an extra hour to get spooked.  We've had kids infected, but never under six, and all of them were under three.  They went up there and saw four perfectly healthy, drowsy toddlers and walked right back out. Worse, I was in surgery on Talia's shoulder; I didn't even know until Karl came to tell me. Two and a half hours past manifestation, they were crying for their parents--fuck, I hate Croat--and two of their parents were trying to get in the room."
He squeezes her hands again as they start to tremble.
"I wasn't at my best," she whispers, an echo of grief in her voice, and he thinks of Grant in the mortuary; by then, she may have even seen what was left of his body.  "I called for help, Teresa brought a team up, it was a mess.  I locked down that part of the wing, went down to the drug closet and got everything myself."  She looks up.  "And then Alicia appeared, like magic.  Karl said I was sitting there about an hour, that was--I didn't realize it had been that long.  She asked what we needed, and I--I told her."  She wets her lips.  "She asked what we were using, how much, checked the bottles, asked me where she could suit up, and said she'd check in when she was done.  About an hour later, she was in my office, filling in time of death."
"How was she?"
"Quiet, but nothing that set off any flags," she answers.  "First rule of isolation: don't fuck around, and she didn't.  Got in, got it done, got out.  Karl--who's not an idiot and knows the second rule of isolation is you don't talk about isolation no matter what you suspect--kept an eye on her and took her home with him that night, just in case.  Said she seemed fine."  She squeezes his hands one more time before letting go, and Dean pretends he can still feel his fingers (the ones without nerve damage, anyway).  "Dean, I wouldn't have let her do it, I swear, but she said it was fine, she'd done it before."
Dean checks his nod; she's done it before.  "That's our Alicia," he agrees, relieved he sounds normal.  "No point arguing; she'll just keep talking until you give in, so might as well save yourself some time."
"Yeah." She takes a deep breath.  "If it helps, tell Alicia that if she comes here, she'll see nothing but friends, okay?"  
"I will. And you tell them it wasn't any of you," he says, knowing what she won't say; she's under suspicion as well for the leak as the only one who should know who did isolation duty.  "Tell them I confirmed it was our leak."  Dolores makes a face. "Don’t make me do the gossip thing; I'll put Joe and Amanda on it, but you shouldn't get shit for what wasn't your fault."
She nods reluctantly.  "Names or not?"
"Use their names, and ours: our fuck-up, we're not hiding it.  This wasn't anyone at Ichabod."  Now for the part he's almost looking forward to now.  "Look, I know she's not in great shape, but--"
"You want to talk to Carol."  He nods, and she sits back, eyes sharp.  "Level with me: this the only thing?"
"No." He debates what to tell her and how much, then goes with the truth.  "We just chatted with the demon responsible for the Croat attack two days ago, and we're pretty sure Micah's involved, somehow.  Carol may know something about what's going on, and we need to find out.  Just talk," he clarifies. "But it's gotta be private. You can check in, but...."
"You need to be alone."  She meets his eyes. "How long?"
"Fifteen minutes or less," he answers.  "We're on a time limit."
She thinks for a moment, then nods slowly.  "Fifteen minutes," she confirms.  "She's awake now, next examination isn't for another hour.  I'll take you myself."
He gets to his feet.  "Thanks."
Opening the door, Dean sees two sets of eyes fly toward him. Cathy flushes bright red, gaze dropping to the bed; Carol doesn't react at all.
"Need a minute," he says flatly, jerking his head toward the door.  Cathy jumps to her feet, flushing harder as she picks up the stack of clean sheets, and not meeting his eyes as she scurries by him and into the hall where her footsteps come to a halt, probably on seeing Dolores. 
"We should talk," he hears Dolores say.  "Wait here, would you?  I'll be just a second."
Carol looks like shit; the harsh overhead lights throw the strain on her face into prominent relief, skin stretched tight, lips thin and bloodless, and he finds himself avoiding looking directly at her leg even if it's under the blankets.  The sound of the monitors is almost painfully loud, and inevitably, he finds himself staring at the IV bag that's doing its damndest to save her from herself.  Her expression darkens, eyes going to the doorway where Dolores is standing.
"I don't want--" she starts unevenly, but Dolores simply steps back and closes the door.  Closing her eyes, she bites her lip before opening them and focusing on Dean. "If you're here about--"
"Erica's here."  What little color Carol has drains away, leaving her a sickly yellow.  "For Micah, in case that wasn't obvious.  But you knew about that, what am I saying?"
The thin, trembling fingers tighten in the blanket.  "And Micah?"
Of course that's what she cares about.  "We're moving him to our headquarters."
"Thank God," she whispers, relaxing against the pillows.  "So he's okay?"
"Oh yeah," he agrees, crossing his arms.  "His buddies are still missing, but they'll turn up, I guess."
She bites her lip. "Can I--"
"If you're next words are 'see him', then you gotta be fucking with me."
Her cheeks splotch with dull color.  "Dean, I'm dying--"
"And you're not fucking up anyone else's life on your way out."  Carol flinches.  "You can send him a letter through Dolores, though; someone will see he gets it, how's that?"
Wetting her lips, her mouth trembles on the next words.  "That's not fair."
"I don't care." She opens her mouth again, but Dean keeps going.  "Erica brought some old friends of ours--it's like the most fucked-up reunion in history--and for some reason, I don't think she's going to go away quietly at dawn when we refuse to hand him over.  What's going on?"
Carol frowns, almost convincingly.  "I don't understand."
"I think you do."  Her frown deepens.  "Micah's buddies: where are they, what are they doing, and why?"
"I don't know," she answers.  "They aren't under contract--at least, Micah said they weren't--so maybe they're just not interested in being Chitaqua's special guests.  You don't have a good reputation these days, or so I heard."  Her mouth twists into a parody of a smile.  "Sow what you reap, Dean.  You're killers, all of you; now everyone's getting with the program."
"So you're saying, Micah didn't tell you anything about what he's planning?" Dean asks evenly, waiting for Carol's impatient nod.  "Sorry to waste your time; it's not like you got much of it left."
Her smile freezes.
"Okay, I told Dolores under fifteen minutes, so--"
"Dean, wait."  He pauses with his hand on the doorknob as she pushes herself upright, blanching when it moves her leg, wondering what's wrong with him that he just lets her.  "I want to see Micah."
He takes a moment to wonder what Carol's world is like, where you call people killers before asking for favors and don't see the problem.  He should do something about that.  "No."
"You're being petty," she says accusingly.  "Whatever bullshit Alicia told you about Micah, it's a lie.  She--"
"I get it, your crusade against Alicia is your thing, because that's what's important here.  Tell me, though, what did those kids do to you?"
She looks confused.  "What kids?"
"The Croat kids."  He lets go of the doorknob.  "Hell, what did their parents do to you?"
"I don't know what you--"
"Three weeks ago," he says, "this town was attacked--wait, you know all about it.  How many residents died, Carol?"
She licks her lips.  "I don't--"
"Forty-nine adults and fourteen kids.  How many were infected?"  She glares at him, mouth tight.  "Thirteen adults, four kids.  Know the official cause of death?  Bet you don't, but I do; it's the same as those killed during the fighting: died of injuries sustained during the attack.  Because that's what happened; you don't survive Croat, no matter how long you may live after.  Four kids didn't survive, but they still had to keep living, all the way past threshold. Their families, their friends, this town, had to watch them become monsters."
She licks her lips.  "Dean--"
"But you--Jesus Christ.  You don't get it.  It could have been anyone, and until today, it was anyone; they didn't want to know more, didn't need to.  Now, they have to deal with their kids being dead and knowing for absolute fact what person had to do the shittiest fucking job in this goddamn world.  How is that better?" She looks startled, like somehow, it didn't occur to her.  "But hey, you got to score a few points off Alicia with dead kids: win, win, am I right?"
"That's not what...." She stops, probably because she can't work out how to explain she didn't think about it, wouldn't have given a fuck if she did and doesn't now, but does realize hey, that does seem kind of shitty. "You don't think they deserved to know?"
"Who the fuck are you to decide that?"  Carol leans back against the pillows, eyes wide.  "Ichabod's gotten along for two years without you to guide them, so I don't think you--or I--have any fucking right to even ask that question.  This town decided how to deal with this, as a community; you deciding on your own that they're doing it wrong...that would be shitty on its own, but you didn't even do it for a fucked-up principle and don't pretend you did.  You did it just to fuck with Alicia."
"She killed kids!" Carol says hotly, the splotches of color darkening.  "Whatever reason, they were kids, and she walked in there like it was nothing and shot them up.  Dean, ask yourself, what kind of person could do that?"
"The kind of person who knows the job's gotta be done," he answers.  "Better question: who the fuck decides their feelings are more important than doing their job?  The same kind of person who thinks their feelings are more important than a town's peace.  Petty, Carol: you have no idea, so how about I show you how it's done.  No, you won't see Micah.  I won't let you anywhere near HQ, I won't authorize him being brought here, and all contact will be done by the old fashioned write it on a piece of paper; ask Dolores for some, I bet she'd love to help you out after the truly shitty morning she's had already. Anything you write--or he does, which is unlikely, but anything's possible--will be read by Dolores, me, Cas, Micah's wife, and whoever else I think needs to see it, and I may read that shit out loud in the middle of the town if I feel like it and spoiler: I feel like it.  Take notes, Carol; that's how you do petty and mean it."  She swallows.  "And I can do it without fucking up grieving people's lives."
Her hands clench in the sheets.  "You're an asshole, you know that?"
"Have my way, you'll never see him alive again," he says, glancing deliberately at her leg before grinning at her.  "Looks like I'll get my wish.  You're not dying, Carol, you're dead; all you're doing is marking time.  Don't let the door hit you in the ass on the way out."
She flinches, hand going to her thigh before jerking it back, fingers closing into a fist.  Then (because of course that's what she cares about), "Micah's wife?"
Still grinning, he opens the door and goes out into the hall, not surprised to see Dolores several feet down, talking to one of her other volunteers.  Catching her eye, he nods and starts to the third floor to get Cas.
Dean hovers at the doorway, carefully out of line of sight, but he doubts being seen will be a problem.  Cas, sitting on the edge of Sudha's bed, is utterly focused on the bundle of plump baby in his arms, dressed in a tiny yellow and green embroidered shirt and soft cloth diaper. 
"Very beautiful," he says in a hushed voice, and Dean takes in Sudha's bright smile as she watches, sitting up against the pillows and looking comfortable in scrub bottoms and a long, embroidered tunic laced up the front, blankets pushed back in the warmth of the room.  Catching a tiny fist, Cas watches in fascination as the little fingers fail to wrap around his thumb. "They're so small, yet each without flaw," he observes in wonder, and Dean realizes this may be the first time Cas has ever seen a newborn (well, last night, but Jaya wasn't at her best at first sight).  "She's utterly perfect."
"She is," Sudha answers, reaching to adjust the edge of her daughter's shirt.  "Don't worry: she only seems fragile."  Her head turns too quickly for Dean to move, and catching his eye, she jerks her head for him to come in.  Jaya makes a bubbly baby sound--no idea what that means--and Sudha laughs.  "I think she likes you."
As quietly as he can, Dean comes up behind them, looking over Cas's shoulder at the tiny face, big brown eyes regarding the world thoughtfully.  Cas touches her cheek with one finger, almost tentative, and the dark eyes focus on him briefly; maybe he's imagining it, but he could swear she recognizes Cas.  
"Hey," he says softly, just short of secret creepy-watching territory.  Resting a hand on Cas's shoulder, he relaxes as Cas leans back against him; the clinging feeling of having crawled out of something slimy that's lingered since he left Carol's room recedes.  "Hey, Jaya," he murmurs, reaching down to touch her head--a lot of hair for a newborn, sleekly black and curling at the ends.  The pursed lips move busily.  "She's gonna break some hearts, Sudha."
"All of them," Sudha agrees as Cas looks up in utter amazement, and Dean grins, dropping a kiss against his temple.  
"How're you doing?" he asks Sudha; Cas didn't know how much she'd choose to remember, so neutral is the way to go.
"Great," she answers cheerfully, almost glowing; so that's definitely a thing.  "Vera recommended Jaya and I remain here for a few days just in case, but forty days seclusion can start here just as easily as at home."  Her grin turns mischievous.  "I made her repeat it several times, tell her I apologize, but her accent...."
"She went to college in Texas and spent a great deal of time there as a child," Cas explains, watching in awe as Jaya's tiny mouth opens on a yawn. "The slight drawl is inevitable; it seems you have only to step in the state for it to attach itself like some sort of linguistic barnacle and is difficult to eradicate. We're fortunate she didn't spend time in the eastern portion of the state or a twang would also make an appearance.  Listening to native speakers will assist her to keep a native accent.  If possible, don't speak English to her; it seems to be coded to the speaker and not entirely under her control.  More practice should help with that as well."
"Every chance I get," Sudha promises happily, adding something in Hindi that makes Cas grin at her, and his reply setting off a fit of giggles; so Sudha's in a really good mood.  Reluctantly, Dean awards points to the goddess whose name he can't speak (or even think, God that's weird); she really is different with her worshippers.
At Jaya's vaguely querulous sound, Cas reluctantly passes her back to Sudha. "Thank you," he tells her.  "I don't know how you have decided to structure your seclusion, but I would like to visit again at the first opportunity, with your permission."
"Family is always welcome," she says softly, tucking Jaya against her chest before meeting Cas's eyes for a long moment.  "Uncle, yes?  At least, from a certain point of view."
Cas stills, and Dean squeezes his shoulder reassuringly.
"Only if you wish--" Sudha begins as the silence stretches.
"Of course I do!" Cas bursts out, and Dean bites back a smile; he doesn't need to see Cas's face to know he just closed his eyes in sheer horror, and Sudha relaxes, starting to smile.  "I mean," he starts again, "yes, of course I do." Touching Jaya's cheek, Cas starts to rise, then pauses, leaning over and kissing Sudha's forehead.  "That does include mandatory babysitting duties, I understand?"
"Oh yes," she agrees, eyes shimmering and reaching with her free arm, tugs Cas into a hug.  Cas hesitates, then leans closer.  "It includes many things.  When she's sick and needs entertainment and when she's teething and when she wants to complain about her parents and especially when I'm very tired of her whining and consider throwing her out the window and wondering why on earth I ever wanted children."
"All of that and more.  Thank you," Cas whispers, and Dean's chest tightens.  "Promise me you'll stay here until the barrier rises.  James' team will be assigned here to watch over all of you."
"If I must fight, I will," she answers softly.  "But Jaya will be safe with Rabin and our family here, I promise."
Cas hesitates, then nods.  "We'll try very hard to make sure you're not needed," he answers, straightening reluctantly.  "I'll visit again soon."
Dean nods to Sudha and quickly averts his eyes when he realizes why Jaya is making those impatient sounds (that would be the reason for the lacing on the tunic), following Cas out of the room.  
"James," he says as Neeraja appears at the end of the hall, looking surprised to see them.  Waving at her, he turns his attention back to James.  "Your team's assigned to the infirmary; do whatever Dolores needs, but one of you stay with Sudha at all times, okay?"
James looks relieved.  "Got it."
"How's Nate?" he asks belatedly; before last night, he hasn't seen much of him.
"Fine," James answers automatically, then sighs.  "He's fronting with us, but not like you can't read the guy like a book." Dean exchanges a look with Cas; James reads Natese now. Okay then.  "We're sticking with him, keeping him busy. He and Mira are working on one of the other rooms; Dolores says getting more space is priority right now."
"And Zack?"
James make a face. "Almost broke his finger with a hammer twice. He's doing orderly duty; we'll let him paint. Maybe."
"Good man."  Squeezing his shoulder, Dean sees Neeraja hovering nearby.  "Everything okay?"
"Just visiting Sudha," she says with a smile.  "Could you ask Dolores to give us some privacy for a few hours?  She needs to rest, but she very much also wishes to show off the baby to anyone within ten feet."
"Don't blame her."  He looks at James.  "Do me a favor--"
"And tell visitors to go away?" He nods brightly.  "Can do that.  Except Rabin, of course.  I'll tell Dolores myself."
Neeraja smiles in relief.  "Thank you."  
As she goes inside the room, Dean gives James an encouraging smile before following Cas to the stairs.  It's an effort, but he manages to wait until they're outside before asking, "So how much does Sudha remember?"
"Not Jaya's former identity, of course," he answers.  "I assumed that much, but she retained everything else.  A relief, in all honesty."
Not hard to figure out why Cas likes that part and not just because it would make conversation really awkward when it comes to 'what not to say about the goddess in your room' thing.  "Uncle Cas," he says out loud, and Cas ducks his head on a smile; yeah, should have guessed that, because Gabriel, of fucking course Gabriel.  At least he can still think his name.  "I like it.  That part of the personal stuff you mentioned?"
"I didn't realize she'd told Sudha the whole as well," he answers, looking at Dean worriedly.  "I was going to tell you, but...."  He wanted to think about it, Dean deduces from the trail off; if Sudha didn't know it, or acknowledge it, he couldn't either.  And until--oh, five minutes ago--he probably didn't even realize how much he wanted her to.
"You're going to be a great uncle," Dean tells him, already trying to work out what they should get Sudha and Jaya: he'll ask around, see what they need.  A lot of things with fire retardants when Jaya hits puberty, if she gets that back (they should find a copy of Firestarter, get some research in).  At least he won't have to threaten her future boyfriends and girlfriends too much and hey, it'll be easy to see which ones need to have a long talk about appropriate behavior, being singed and all.  While Cas stares them into a healthy puddle of pure terror: this is gonna be great.
Cas glances back at the infirmary with a faint smile before turning his attention back to Dean.  "The sooner she makes her offering, the better.  I'd far prefer her to have the protection of the earth; once it accepts her, it might mask her somewhat should Lucifer happen to discover her."
"I'd like it if Teresa wasn't doing whatever the hell she's doing that's making her look like she did on the wall earlier," Dean answers, and Cas's lips tighten.  "Want to fill me in?"
"She's not in danger, if that's what you're worried about."
"Cas--"
"She's draining herself into the wards to strengthen them," Cas interrupts. "Which is another perk of having the wards permanently inscribed onto the walls; she can store power there.  It's perfectly safe, and while somewhat tiring for her, it's far preferable than waiting until we're attacked to have the wards draw directly from her."
"That's not the part I'm worried about."
"Manuel, Alison, and Neeraja are all aware of what she's doing.  Wendy as well: they're assuring she doesn't risk herself.  The earth tends to discourage self-sacrifice in general and among its priestesses in specific, especially before there's a pressing need for it."
Dean closes his lips over his opinion of the earth's ability to persuade Teresa; she's a hunter, and as a group, 'self-sacrifice' isn't something they avoid if they can help it.  The risk to Alison may be the only thing keeping Teresa from doing something insanely stupid.
With an effort, he puts that aside for some time not now.  "I talked to Carol."
Cas's expression doesn't change, but it isn't the weather that's creating that kind of chill right now.  "What did she say?"
"She says doesn't know anything," he answers as they make the turn for Second.  
"Do you believe her?"
It's a genuine inquiry.  "No, but whatever she knows, it's only what Micah told her, and I doubt he told her much."  Carol parroting Micah's party line on Alicia like gospel doesn't give him a lot of confidence in her judgment, and Micah is an asshole but couldn't have been stupid enough to tell her more than he had to.  "Infirmary could use some more orderlies, though, maybe watch for visitors; we got anyone?"
"Haruhi and Rosario," he answers after a moment of thought.  "They're both from Ichabod, and it wouldn't be particularly of note for them to be there.  Assuming she's aware we're recruiting, even if she saw them at Headquarters, I doubt she'd remember them."
Living with the recruits the last few days, he can already see the echoes of Amanda (Cas) forming in them from their training, the way they move, react: a half-step off Chitaqua's hunters, but they're getting there.  Just as importantly, he's seen how his militia acts around them, and considering half of them didn't even want to come to Ichabod for the party (and getting laid by new people), it says something--he's not sure what, but something--they don't seem to remember the recruits haven't been with them all along.  
He remembers what Kamal said when they were watching Amanda testing them on the training field that day, about getting to know them now when they'll eventually be living with them; only now, he gets that Kamal was being both figurative and really goddamn literal.  They might not always like each other, may never have spoken to each other outside a mission, but watching them fight Croats from the wall under Cas's command, his militia worked together like they lived in each other's skin.  That's not just their training or two years in semi-isolation from the world (though yeah, that probably helped) but something else entirely; something that just might explain why Amanda knew the demon chasing them outside the wall wasn't just from Chitaqua, but who she was, how Alicia figured out the same damn thing.  If Carol doesn't recognize their recruits as Chitaqua on sight, either she's been away too long or--more likely--there may be more than one reason she left Chitaqua and why Andy loved her but still stayed behind.
It's only now--five months and change after that night in the infirmary after Chuck revealed him to the camp and Cas told him why he made Dean wear those sigils--that he realizes there's no fucking way he should have been able to pass.  Near death by Lucifer whatever, he would have--should have--felt wrong.  If Alicia and Amanda could both identify Erica--while running from Croats, as a demon, and in a body not her own--Dean should have had a bullet in his head on sight the moment he got out of the jeep, before Cas could say a goddamn thing.
Abruptly, he remembers fighting the initial Croat attack two days ago and then bravely running almost three fucking miles to that door; he didn't have their training, had no goddamn idea what they were doing--hell, he'd never even fought with them before--but it didn't matter.  He knew them, and they knew him, like....  
"Dean?" 
He jerks his thoughts back to now.  "Yeah, good idea," he says belatedly, then catches that second name. "Rosario?  Isn't she behind the rest of the class?"
"According to Amanda's reports, very much, though she's making excellent progress," Cas agrees.  "I'm intrigued by Alicia's idea of training students using music; I should have thought of that myself.  The performance aspect--"
"Right, I'm just saying--" He's not sure where he's going with this. "I thought Amanda picked ones with a fastest learning curve for this class?"  He tries to remember Rosario specifically in training the times he observed, but Haruhi generally dominated his attention (and everyone else's, for that matter).  It's not every day someone five foot two can wipe the floor with pretty much every student without looking like she's making much of an effort, but Jesus.  Derek's impressive because he's six feet tall and has the muscle mass, like Kara, who's five ten and is literally nothing but pure muscle; he's seen both of them pick up members of their team during training and actually run them to safety.  Then he looks at Cas and gets it. "Amanda didn't pick her--you did."
Cas shrugs.  "I suggested her when Amanda brought me her choices, yes."
Which means Rosario wasn't on her list at all.  "How was she? Compared to Haruhi--"
"You may as well ask how Haruhi compares to me," he interrupts blandly.  "There's no comparison."
Dean frantically reviews his memories of training again, looking for someone outright terrible, but nothing.  "Okay, not that I can remember seeing her out there--"
"You can't?"  Dean looks at him sharply.  "But you remember Haruhi well enough to ask me for a comparison against her."
"Well, yeah, she's hard to miss...."  He wonders if he's missing something, but before he can ask for more information, he realizes Headquarters is ten feet away.  Filing it away for later (there's a lot of that), he tries to brace himself for what comes next.
When they get to the Situation Room, Joe is talking with Vera and Kamal, and the Micah notebook is open in Alicia's hands;  from where she is in it, she's reading fast.  Vera looks up, expression carefully neutral, and Dean really hopes Ichabod's benefits package sucks, because seriously.  Taking a breath, he pauses, identifing a mix of mint and--sage?--and spots two blue and green striped candles discreetly burning in the far corner, which he assumes is to promote something that includes 'calm' and 'don't kill Dean'.  Maybe he should have Vera hold one, just in case.  
"Almost done," Alicia says without looking up.  Dean's not surprised she can read Joe's what the fuck handwriting; she'd probably spontaneously develop the ability to read Sanskrit on sheer Alicia-ness.
"Right," he starts as Cas joins Vera on the couch, which could be Cas being a supportive friend or wanting to be on hand to stop her from going for another Dean Winchester, and why did he remember that right now?  
He's halfway across the room when the door opens, and not even surprising, it's Alison with Teresa and Amanda in tow.  From Alison's expression, she's learned a whole new level of 'cranky'.  "Hey Alison."
"Dealing with demons?" she demands before she's even through the door, and Dean can't get over how someone in bent wire-rimmed glasses and rocking three pencils in her hair--one about to stab her ear--can swallow up a room with the sheer power of her annoyance with all within her sight.  He's kind of glad that's not privileged information or anything, because he's pretty sure the entire building heard that.  "Because that worked really well before?"
"The wall--" Cas starts before Dean can give him the 'shut up' look because no, the wall is not proof of the okayness of anything.
"You, shut up," she snaps, and Teresa, looking apologetic, closes the door with a sigh.  "Dean?"
Dean realizes everyone is looking at him.  Oh, now he's leader of Chitaqua: when it's his fault.  "Amanda briefed you?" She nods impatiently. "You tell me; what should I have done?"
That stops her--for an entire second.  "Called me in to at least be there!  Not that you aren't scary, honey," she tells Teresa, who nods in resignation at being a delicate flower while carrying almost as many weapons as he does (not including the witch thing).  "Just, I don't know, something."
"Well, something would definitely have helped, sorry. Could have used some of that."  Dropping casually onto the arm of the couch by Cas, he immediately regrets it; the sharp pain from his inner thigh and--weirdness of other places--come together to create the least fucking appropriate moment in history to...feel that.  Shifting carefully, he glances at Cas and knows for an absolute fucking fact he's not oblivious at all.  "Grab a chair and sit down.  This won't take long."
Looking mutinous--why?  Why stand when you don't have to?--Alison retrieves two, handing Teresa into the first like she's made of glass before dropping deliberately into the other one directly across from Dean just in case her glare needs the help of direct line of sight.  It doesn't, thanks, but looking her over, Dean wonders if she slept at all last night, and he doesn't think it's just the sweater that makes her look so thin. The hazel eyes are too big, too bright in a face with skin stretched too tightly over the high cheekbones.  Involuntarily, he thinks of Carol in the infirmary.  "Hey, you okay?"
Alison looks her opinion of him asking questions. "Fine."
"After Dolores kicked her out of the infirmary last night, she toured the big building we just got up off Seventh to see if it was up to spec, tried to help, was herded away from anything involving electricity--tell Sean and Lena thank you--"
"Teresa!"
"--and went back to Admin, where she proceeded to fall asleep on her desk and drool over inventory lists," Teresa finishes grimly. "At which time, I came to get her and she slept badly in our bed for a whole three hours.  We may need to talk pre-nuptial agreement, honey."
"Bad dreams?" Dean asks, then tenses, because there's also bad dreams. "Uh--"
"No," Alison grinds out.  "Just normal we're all going to die, not a preview of how." She sighs unhappily, slumping.  "I never thought I'd say this, but I wouldn't mind having something this time.  A little guidance would be nice."
"If it helps," Cas says, "as we discussed before, your clairvoyance is actually useful; it's personal, not general--which in an Apocalypse you definitely do not want it to be otherwise--and is triggered by a potential decision that you make: in other words, something you yourself can actually do. While you make many decisions every day as a person and mayor--major and minor--there is very little that is affected by your decision alone, and something like this--"
"Too many variables," Dean says wisely and gets a flicker of a smile from Cas and blank expressions from everyone else.  Awesome.  "This isn't craps; it's poker, and everyone in this town is playing.  Can't make someone less lucky.  Or more," he adds thoughtfully.  "Just gotta play the hand you're dealt, hope for the best, and cheat if you gotta."
There's a long pause before Kamal says, sounding strangled, "Was that--was that a life lesson?"
"Could be," Dean agrees enigmatically: why not? "I do those sometimes."
Amanda looks at Joe desperately. "He does those?"
"Once," Joe answers, gazing pensively into the distance, "he almost made us conquer Kansas in his name to teach us a very valuable lesson about friendship."
"Even Michael was never allowed to conquer the world," Cas says wistfully.  "I even had a tentative design for my standard all would carry and that would become a source of dread and fear to all who would behold it."  Giving the impression of someone letting go of a life's dream, he sighs.  "Friendship and fair trade of potatoes and vegetables is, of course, far preferable.  For that is our way."
"I'm sorry Dean crushed your dreams of conquest," Alison says sympathetically. "If I go megalomaniac--provided I don't go crazy in a bathtub of heroin--you're my first choice for general of my crazy army.  Promise."
Cas smiles at her. "I appreciate it."
"All right," Dean says loudly, "back to the crazy demon outside and not the crazy people in here.  We have until dawn; who wants to start?"
Alicia lowers the notebook, finger marking the page. "So, Erica planned something."
"No shit!" Cas gives him a disappointed look.  "Sorry," he adds, not sorry at all but ready to move on.  "If we'd kept her talking a little longer--"
"No, not planning--planned; it's already in progress." Alicia leans forward in her chair.  "She wouldn't have called you out there unless she was very sure it was working.  Terrible chess player, good at poker but not great, won't play craps to save her life, see what I mean?"
It should weird him out that yeah, he does.  "Can't do long term planning, doesn't bluff, doesn't like risk and won't play on it: whatever it is, she's already sure--or as sure as she can be--that it'll work."  
Alicia nods confirmation to assume they're fucked.
"Even if we give her Micah--which we're not--he's not what she's really after here," he finishes. "Great."
"She wants Micah," Joe disagrees."She set up an entire goddamn ambush outside the walls to get him, and that doesn't include what happened on his way here with Carol.  Not saying it almost didn't work or it wasn't good, but it wasn't exactly up there with Genghis Khan when it comes to strategy: all it had going for it was surprise--and hey, we were surprised--and numbers, and the numbers were kind of thrown in for the hell of it.  Very Erica."  Alicia glances up to nod confirmation before returning to her reading, and Dean fights the impulse to ask her how she would have done it.  "This was opportunistic; she saw her chance and took it, using whatever she had on hand to get it done."
"All that for one guy?" Dean asks skeptically.  From the corner of his eye, he watches Alicia's expression, hoping for something unguarded, but no; there's an audience and Alicia is a good performer.
"She would," Alicia agrees in support of Joe.  "You know the saying; you send--"
"--Stanley when they won't talk, Terry if they won't help, and Erica when you want to win, and don't care how," Dean finishes for her. 
"For the record," Alison interjects, "I like the other version of this much better. With the skillsets that don't have horrifying implications, unspoken but not like you can't read between the lines."
"You're not the only one," he tells her.  "I don't want to know what they say about me, by the way, in case anyone was going to do that."  Vera doesn't look at him, which just means she's making up something right now in her head if there wasn't anything before. 
"Jeffrey warned Micah about her," Joe continues.  "Assuming Micah was telling the truth, which gonna say, in that one instance, I'm inclined to believe him.  Especially considering what else Jeffrey told him about that little talk and shoot he had with Cas."
"Then why did she want to talk to us in the first place?" he demands.  "She had to know we weren't gonna hand him over to her!"
"Well--" Joe starts doubtfully, having spent quality time listening to Micah talk and transcribing it to boot.
"I'm saying ethics and not being a shitty person aside," Dean explains, "I wouldn't give her a bullet to the head if she asked for it.  Just knowing she wanted bullets would have me signing anti-gun petitions just so she would never get one!"
He notes in satisfaction that not one person tries to explain how that doesn’t make any fucking sense, because hey, it does.
"Which means," Cas says blandly, "that she didn't want to convince us to give her Micah, and there was another reason she wanted to talk."
"What did she say to you during that cone of silence, anyway?" Amanda asks curiously, but he doesn't miss the sharp blue gaze. "You know, that made Cas shoot her?"
Dean freezes, mind utterly blank.  Yeah, an explanation for that would be good here, and hey, he really should have come up with one.
"She told Dean she fired the first shot at the cabin that night," Cas says, sounding bored, and in the part of Dean's mind blessing Cas's ability to not-lie on demand, he notes Alicia's head come up sharply. "How much she regretted failing, how she wishes they'd tried again, and then proceeded to taunt him about her actions in Chitaqua under his very nose. It was annoying."
Joe sits back, looking incredulous.  "Let me get this straight--she called us out there just to spend two thirds of the conversation gloating down memory lane with you two?  What, she's taking lessons in how to be a shitty supervillain?"
"It was like having to listen to Lucifer," Cas replies, wrinkling his nose fastidiously.  "But without the megalomania, which might have been terrifying but at least provided variety in conversation."  He frowns, slumping back into the couch.  "She also said those who can't do, teach.  It seems to be a day for my abilities to be called into question; at least she didn't imply that I couldn't kill a demon--"
"Oh God," Vera interrupts despairingly, "let it go."
Cas doesn't answer, which Dean takes as someday, sure, but not yet.  Okay, then, time to subtly change the subject, and since he has no idea how to do that, he's glad Joe jumps in.  "If she wasn't lying about leaving at dawn, then that's exactly how long we have to figure out what's going on.  And hope we can either stop it or mitigate it, and I'm betting the latter is best case scenario here."
So Joe's optimistic.  "Think she's avoiding the Misborn?"
"Oh yeah, if she knows, and let's assume she does.  In which case, that may not be a hard deadline, just how long she'll wait." Joe shrugs. "In other words, she's probably fucking with us; I seriously doubt she was sincere about sharing her timetable to help us out."
"So could be done in five minutes or by dawn, we just don't know?  Because Erica." Joe nods helpfully.  "We're hoping--hoping--this takes a while, then.  Whatever it is."
"Well," Joe answers thoughtfully, "the longer it takes, the bigger and worse it probably is, so...."
"Having established that, question," Alicia says before Dean can decide which option here is more horrifying. "Did Crowley authorize this?"
Dean looks at her, then at Cas.  Erica as good as admitted that Crowley didn't authorize the collection of Micah, but that's about it.  "Well?"
"Unfortunately, during our meeting, I didn't have the opportunity to ask him about things that hadn't happened yet," Cas answers seriously.  "Nor, if I had, could I speak for his veracity.  However--all else being equal--he doesn't like her, doesn't trust her, can't control her, and as Joseph said, this is opportunistic and personal.  Unless he's an idiot, he wouldn't give her carte blanche to carry out a private vendetta on earth, especially among her own former compatriots; nothing would be worth the risk.  Also, I suspect that he, too, would sign an anti-gun petition if Erica wanted a bullet."
Dean interprets risk to include 'her going after Dean' or doing anything to fuck up that first contract that's already turned into a clusterfuck.  He's got to survive after all; might fuck things up if Erica took out Dean Winchester the first's replacement, unless there's another one somewhere.  There are a lot of worlds out there...and he needs to not think about that.
"So exactly how long can she fly under Crowley's radar if he doesn't know?" Alicia asks.  "Ballpark?  That little chat--end to end, about an hour?  Five days in Hell: Crowley decided to start his weekend nap early?"
Dean opens his mouth and shuts it. "Good question.  How the hell is she getting away with this?  Why would he give her topside privileges at all when she pissed him off?"  
"There's fucking with your minions' heads for reasons, and then there's stupid," Amanda states.  "I'm almost at stupid; why the hell was she even on Crossroads duty in the first place?"  She looks around them. "Here's what we know for sure: about two months ago, Jeffrey told Micah that Erica was after him and he ran; about how long would it take after she rose that she wasn't still crazy from the rack?"
It can take time--sometimes years, sometimes decades, sometimes never--before a demon is more than mindless cringing and terrorized obedience, but no surprise, she's off curve there, too.  "Her?  A year at most," Dean says without thinking, wondering incredulously how anyone could have missed it--Alistair made that mistake with him, too, you'd think they'd learn--and stiffens, but no one seems to notice.  "And more crazy, just a different kind."
"Point," Amanda says.  "So that's what, three days on earth?  Fast forward to five days ago, Erica answered Cas at the Crossroad; the next day, Micah saw her when that Hellhound went after Carol trying to get to him thirty miles outside Ichabod; two days after that, she's sending Croats to break the ward line; now today. You're telling me Crowley is okay with his minions wandering around the greater Kansas area without a leash?"
"He wants her to think he's weak," Cas offers.
"He's doing a good job," Alicia says thoughtfully, and Dean realizes once again he's in a room with the smartest person he's ever met. "Or something's holding him back.  Question is, what?"
That's exactly what's starting to worry him. Loose-cannon Erica is terrifying, but somehow, he doesn't think it's better if the reason Crowley isn't controlling her is that goddamn contract might not be letting him.  And of course Alicia would jump to that; this rate, she's gonna stumble over that first contract before they can work out how the hell to explain it to anyone (he doesn't even pretend keeping that a secret isn't going to bite them in the ass somehow).  Alison, he may be able to get away with some lack of clarity, at least for a little while, but Miss Deux Ex Machina over there is a different story.  
"You're thinking--you are, I know it--'Alicia, give us revelation on Erica's plan'."  Alicia shrugs.  "I can't.  But Micah, that's a gimme, the golden rule of villainy; if you can't beat them, join them."
Amanda closes her eyes.  "Micah would be stupid enough to try to deal with Erica.  Again.  Because that worked out so well for him last time.  With the Hellhounds gone, he'd know the precautions to take even if Erica was stupid enough to test the ward line.  It was what, about eighteen, twenty hours between when we saw him before the attack and he was caught, so--"
"Amanda," Alison interrupts, "we have guards on the bricked postern doors, all the gates are sealed but the western one, and we have people on them.  No one could get through the gates or the doors; the wall's new, but defense isn't."
"And there hasn't been a summoning," Teresa adds, and Dean sees the faint, dark gleam in her eyes.
"He went over it," Amanda answers.  "Go out after dark, get a rope, climb down."
"We have guards patrolling...." Alison makes a face.  
"He knows how patrol and watch work.  Probably an hour before the shift change; almost there but not quite, feels like forever, especially when nothing's going on.  Takes time, experience, and sometimes, someone terrorizing the fuck out of you one night in the cabin--"
"Do we really need to bring that up again?" Dean asks.
"--to learn not to glaze over, and yes, until the day I die," she finishes blithely, turning her attention to Teresa, who looks grim.  "Not your fault, Teresa.  You have a lot of new people on the wall, and honestly, it's better no one saw him: otherwise, easy to trip and fall off the wall in the dark with some help."
Alison's glare at Dean intensifies.  "You're all ninjas.  Of course you are."
"I didn't train 'em.  Not all by myself," Dean protests before he can stop himself.  "Cas did!"
"I did," Cas agrees.  "If I didn't loathe Micah with all my being, I would be very proud he's retained so much of his training.  I'm proud anyway, you understand, but I'm attempting not to be, because it's Micah."
"He probably had the idiots two to help do the hard, hard work of finding a rope and pulling him back up," Amanda adds disparagingly. "His upper arm strength was never anything to write home about."
"And they'd go along with that?" Alison asks incredulously. "Please help me go over the wall to see a demon?"
"They're that stupid," Alicia assures her. "If he even told them anything."
"They were of the quality one usually associates with minions who choose a substandard leader, as in, they probably didn't even think to ask why he wanted to climb up and down the wall in what was probably the middle of the night," Cas confirms.  Dean hasn't even met the guys but is now surprised they know to breathe regularly just from reputation.  "I agree: Micah made another deal with her, either for his survival until his contract comes due, or--Micah being a lawyer--a way out of his contract."
"You can do that?" Teresa asks as Alison frowns into the distance, hazel eyes unfocused.
"It's not common but it's certainly not unprecedented," Cas answers.  "However, it's more complicated than simply making another trade.  You're buying your soul from Hell itself, above and beyond the price the demon demands."
"Unlike cars," Dean says brightly, "human souls actually appreciate in value.  In case anyone was wondering."
"If Hell isn't satisfied by the trade, it's still binding, but the difference is paid by the demon who authorizes the trade," Cas continues.  "If Erica agreed to release Micah, the price she set must be very high, not just to satisfy Hell, but to satisfy her personally.  For the first, that could be anything, but the second....considering how much trouble she's gone to already, I can't imagine anything that would."
"Which might explain why Erica's plan is in progress; it's that big." Cas's expression tells him he's not wrong, which means they might have until dawn after all, fuck their lives. This would be the time to get to that extradition thing.  "Look, Alison, about Micah--"
"Ichabod agrees to the extradition of the prisoner to Chitaqua's custody immediately," Alison says abruptly, blinking at them.  "Pick him up whenever you want, but I like soon."
That was easy, which means somehow, it's gonna go wrong.  "Ichabod's council--"
"Just cleared it with all voting members of the council, not one objection," she says with a small, satisfied smile that widens when she meets Cas's eyes.  "I'm getting better at this."  Seeing Dean's surprise, she snorts. "What?  Not like it was a hard sell. You thought we wanted to keep him?  Even if we did, Naresh is about to forget to not push him out a window on accident, and I can tell you now, we'll all forget to care."
Alicia's expression darkens.  "What'd the asshole do to piss off Naresh?"
"What do you think?" Alison rolls her eyes at Alicia's bewildered expression.  "Naresh wouldn't repeat, but Micah now knows better than to so much as say your name where he or his people can hear it."
Unguarded Alicia: she stares at Alison as if she doesn't understand what she said, and that overpowered brain goes into overdrive trying to work out the obvious.  "Oh."
"So where we gonna put him?" Amanda asks practically.  "Anyone check to see if we had a dungeon?  Seriously: aren't there like, two doors in the basement that we haven't been able to get the locks off yet?  Going by the theme here, I'm going to be genuinely surprised if there's not one."
"I doubt they kept prisoners here," Dean says, though actually, who knows?
Amanda grins.  "I'm talking about the other kind of dungeon. Come on, like all those rings bolted to the walls in the showers, saunas, and Jacuzzis--and the bidet--for casual bondage quickies weren't a clue.  You want something a little more elaborate for those extended work lunches."
"Three doors, Ana's working out the C4 calculations," Alicia says, tearing her gaze from Alison to grin at Amanda.  "Who knew you could do that with a bidet, am I right?"
"Seriously," Dean says, making a note to check out the bidet. "Back on subject: Micah?"
"We got a non-locked room down there," Joe says loudly.  "Nice and big, no windows, one entrance and absolutely no places to attach anyone for anything. Used to be a file room," he adds reluctantly, and suddenly he's glaring at Dean.  "Still had a couple of file cabinets, in fact."
Dean waits, but.... "I give up, why are you pissed at me?"  Then, "Any files in those cabinets you happen to have read?  Law files, maybe?"
Joe sinks down in his chair as Amanda asks, "What are law files?" 
"A bet I just won." He sees Alison's eyes fixed in the middle distance before she starts to grin.  "What?"
"Naresh.  Give him about an hour and a half to finish up, and he wants to know what color bow you would like," she answers, grinning at them.  "It's a given it'll be wrapped around Micah's neck."  She makes a face. "And Tony and Claudia say hi, and I need to take some reports, see some people, do some things.  Before I forgot, Teresa: double the watch on the doors and gates, and get a description of the idiots two to everyone.  Also, we need a description."
"I'll give the order as soon as your babysitters take you off my hands," she answers sweetly, smiling at Dean. "Don't worry--Christina's team is taking a break in the mess.  They'll be on her before she gets out the door.  The description--"
"I got it." Alison scowls half-heartedly, obviously distracted, and belatedly, he realizes she was looking at Cas, who--he's not sure what expression means.  "Yell if you need me." Heaving herself out of the chair, she makes a face, and Dean's reminded of people wearing Bluetooth headsets you can't see and talking to not-so-imaginary friends.  "Yeah, that's definitely weird," she says under her breath as she starts toward the door, and Teresa jumps up with a quick wave and follows Alison closely enough to stop her from running into the door if needed (on a guess, that's happened).  "Turn left, focus--there we go, I see it. Okay, probably not, and where would you get a cat to do it?  Try not to blink for ten seconds--no, all of you, count of three--and hey, don't think of any pink elephants--one, two, three...boom, we are on fire."
Amanda and Joe watch her leave with fond smiles.  "She's getting better," Amanda says after the door closes.  "Didn't fall over her own feet or run into the wall."
"Huh," Vera says.  Amanda looks down at her, but she just shrugs.  "Okay, anything else?  I got a request from Dolores to get to the infirmary when I can, so...."
"Amanda, take Ana's team to pick up our prisoner," he says, aware of Joe and Amanda pretending not to look between Vera and him.  "Joe, you're in charge of our first prison in Ichabod; too bad we can't have a party, but no cake."
"I'd like to see it first," Cas says.  "Not that I don't trust your judgement--"
"You want to imagine Micah in it and how uncomfortable we can make him," Joe says, nodding.  "That's pretty much my reason, too."
"Before we all conveniently forget--I know I want to--but who're we getting to interrogate the asshole?" Vera asks brightly, eyes turning to Dean.  "Gonna do it yourself?"
"I thought you might want the job," he responds, smiling back.
"Or you two can get out your whatevers outside the interrogation room, because fuck if this shit is going in there," Amanda says sharply. Vera crosses her arms, settling back against the couch, and Dean winces, shifting uncomfortably and getting a throb of pain from his thigh for his trouble.  "Biggest question: any of us qualified to get anything out of him?  Joe, you listened to him and Dean--what's your feeling on him?"
"He didn't tell us anything he didn't plan to," Joe answers, resting his ankle on one knee and leaning back.  "Guy was a lawyer and a really good one--I would have hired him--and we're kindergarten compared to what he did in a courtroom.  And he knows it.  Dean threw him off a few times, but--"
"Noticed that," Alicia says thoughtfully, tapping the notebook.  "I'm impressed; he was, actually, that good.  Made partner at twenty-six."
"Didn't know you knew him that well," Vera says and Dean belatedly feels the growing charge.  "You were together, what, five, six months--"
"Coming up on our eleven year anniversary," Alicia says, wrinkling her nose.  "What is that, not paper, not gold--small household appliances, maybe?  Cutlery?  I can do that."
Seeing the surprise on everyone's faces (and trying not to feel smug at the way Vera looks at anything but Alicia), Dean plows back to the original subject.  "Amanda, any thoughts?"
"On how to get divorce papers in the Zone?" She casually rests a hand on Vera's shoulder, squeezing gently, and Vera relaxes.  "Honestly, no.  I'd say leave it to Alison, she can read thoughts--if she'd do it--but that's not what we need.…" She looks at Cas, who shakes his head.  "That's what I figured.  I tested her a couple of times myself."
"What am I missing?" Vera asks. "If she can read his thoughts--"
"That's what he's thinking," Amanda explains. "Ask Alison what hearing random thoughts is like: hint, kind of like tripping but without the fun, not a lot of context, and pretty abstract most of the time.  Even if we can get him thinking in the right way--and why would he think his entire plan up in order, detailed, just because we're asking questions?  We don't even know the right questions to ask--there's no guarantee it's accurate or even true."  Vera looks up at her in confusion. "What, you never lie to yourself?  I'm only borrowing this bread and peanut butter, when Mom and Dad get back we'll leave them a check, really."
Dean meets Amanda's eyes for a moment of shared amusement; you get good at that shit.
"Do it well enough," she continues, "you can convince yourself of anything.  Micah didn't strike me as the kind to admit he's ever done anything wrong in his life; he's had practice, is what I'm saying.  Anyway, a truthsayer, very legendary, also a totally and much suckier skillset from what I've read."
People are better than they think they are, Alison told him; so that's what she meant.  "She can tell something, but yeah, throwing our baby psychic at Micah's like asking a guy who jogs a couple of times a week to do the Boston Marathon the next day.  Cas?"
"I agree, though for this reason as well; she's become more proficient at shielding, but she's been jogging up to now and this town is indeed a marathon.  With this many minds, the cost is even higher; maintaining them requires far more energy than that required when it was just the town's residents, lowering them entirely when she rests is a risk she can't take, even with Teresa's assistance, and what sleep she gets is frequently interrupted."
That would explain a lot. "She's tired."
"Very, and every day the strain on her is growing.  Everyone she speaks to now are minds she's used to and knows very, very well and can filter through her shields with minimal risk and at minimal cost to herself.  While line of sight and proximity helps shorten the amount of time it takes to find him when she lowers her shields, she'd still be exposed to every mind in this town during that time."
"Same reason I couldn't call her from the wall the other day," Amanda agrees.  "Too many people: even if she heard me, that's a lot of minds to get through to find mine."
"She can hear you, though," Dean says to Cas without thinking and wonders belatedly if he's supposed to know that.  But Cas just looks at him.  "And you her."
"That's different; I'm a box she can't not see," he answers, mouth quirking.  "I'm also her instructor and she's my student.  If I'd been with you outside the walls, she could have easily spoken to Amanda by finding her through me, though granted if I were there, that would have been unnecessary."
"But if she could find out something--anything," Vera starts.
"It is my recommendation as second in command of Chitaqua that we do not ask," Cas answers with a finality that makes Dean wonder how much of this is actually about Alison's mental health.  "I also recommend that if she should offer, we refuse, politely of course."
Dean looks at him sharply, but then Kamal asks, "What were you saying about her not being able to tell if he's lying?"
"There's a reason truthsayers were and still are very rare," Cas explains.  "They're not popular at the best of times, and that's if they don't go insane and kill themselves, which occurs with understandable if deplorable frequency."  Actually, Dean can see that, now that he thinks about it; like Alison said, knowing so much is bad enough, but it can't be better to know only true versus lie.  Maybe even worse: it wouldn't take long for them to believe they were insane, not the rest of the world.  "Alison can sense it somewhat, but it's at a very rudimentary level, and with the sheer amount of information she receives even from one mind, it's not consistent.  When she's more comfortable with what she can do now and has more experience with human minds, we'll begin instruction on how to identify truth in what she reads."
Dean looks down at Cas.  "She can do that, too?  Eventually, I mean."
"Of course."  Like he's not sure if Dean's deliberately playing dumb or not.
"Just curious," Vera starts, and Dean hears the same tone in her voice as that 'huh', "but what all could she do?"
"It would be both easier and take much less time to list what she can't do," Cas answers calmly.  "The single item would be 'I'm curious about that as well'."
Dean fights off a chill with an effort.  "Be interesting to find out, I guess--"
"I mean, now," Vera interrupts.  "Sorry, I haven't been around for all this really important bonding time you've all had with Ichabod's mayor, so maybe I'm the only one who's curious why we aren't wondering a little more about her.  Mind-reading, truthsensing--okay, bad truthsensing--"
"She can also yell very loudly," Cas adds like that might help.  "Psychically, I mean.  The night of the wall, you may have heard--"
"That's what that was?  Her?" Vera asks, jerking straight, and okay, how many potential disasters can happen in five fucking minutes?  The brown eyes fly to Dean.  "And you're okay with this?  Why am I not surprised?"
"Uh, Vera--" Joe starts: gotta give him credit for courage if not good sense.
"Shut up.  Dean?  Why do we have people assigned in a town that's run by a psychic that so far, I've seen can talk to anyone she knows in this town, sometimes several at once, may be able to tell if we're lying, and Cas doesn't even know what the fuck she could become?  Am I crazy or is it just the rest of you?"
"I trust her," he answers into the waiting silence; okay, now he'd like some support, thanks.
"Because you trust her," Vera says evenly.  "How about we talk about some of the other people you've trusted?"
"If you want worst case scenario, you need merely ask," Cas interjects so smoothly that only belatedly does everyone turn toward him.  "The most powerful telepath to walk the earth enslaved an army, and they conquered the world in his name."
There's no sound at all, even breathing, until Vera says, "What?"  
"He conquered the world," Cas says.  "He stripped countless minds of everything that made them human, everything that made them them, even their names; he implanted absolute devotion and mindless obedience, had them trained to be soldiers, set himself at the head of an army unlike anything this world has ever seen, and began his conquest.  Those who met him in battle were faced with seemingly endless numbers of soldiers perfect in their skill, suicidal in their devotion, and unbending in their loyalty; even the greatest general born could not win against an army like that. He enslaved the earth itself everywhere he conquered, taking from it everything it could give until nothing remained, to retain his youth and health; millions starved to death, millions more starved themselves and their children to lay the last of their food under the feet of his armies and watch them crush it into the dead earth.  He twisted and destroyed the minds of thousands to create his court and his army; he burned out the minds of captured men and women to be given as sex slaves to his soldiers, and his court's entertainment included but was not limited to mass torture of prisoners, their bodies cannibalized while still alive for the evening meal; if he could imagine it, he tried to do it, simply because he could.  He wanted to create a world in his own image and came dangerously close to achieving godhood."
"Jesus," Vera breathes, and Dean sees her dark skin is nearly ashen.
"At the height of his power, he held nine-tenths of the world under his personal control, the last tenth subjugated to the point of surrender.  When free will is abrogated at that great a scale, even by another human, the Host could act under their own authority on earth," Cas continues.  "When his army penetrated the startling sophisticated defenses of the only humans left on earth who would stand against him, we unleashed ourselves.
"When we came for him, we exterminated fifty million to breach the walls of his capital city; ten million more died to keep us from his fortress, and when we entered its walls, infants and children were thrown on our swords by their own parents to keep us from his chambers.  Living human bodies were twisted into anti-angel sigils and warded to keep us at bay, still able to speak enough to banish us almost as quickly as we could manifest; we had to burn them alive with holy fire. The Host walked in blood knee-deep and for all we killed, more came to take their places before the last were even fully dead.  One hundred million enslaved minds were joined into a net to protect his, and we had to burn them all out one by one to finally reach his.  When he realized he couldn't win, he captured the minds of every living being in the world he could grasp and began to destroy them, leaving living, breathing husks without consciousness to slowly die where they fell."
Joe makes a breathless sound, and Dean reaches for Cas's shoulder, squeezing tentatively.
"Michael led half the Host in holding back his followers while we shattered the warding around his chambers, and Anael planted her sword in his stomach and pinned him to his floor," Cas says, and Dean's aware of a vague, unfocused image forming in his head; a massive stone room, each detail more horrific than the last; walls hung with tapestries and floor rugs woven of human hair and organs and skin between still-rotting, screaming corpses, scattered with dead bodies and worse, some still alive.  He glimpses a burned-out slice of sky in angry oranges and reds between drapes of tanned human flesh, a less refined version, he realizes, of the leather coat and breeches the outraged man wears as he climbed down from a gleaming, polished throne of human bone and decorated with teeth.
Anael--Anael not as she was on earth, but he knows her anyway--steps forward, wearing a breastplate worked in Enochian sigils and made of gleaming light, kilt plated in silver ice and flame as she slams him to the floor at the base of the dais that held his throne. Flipping her sword over her wrist as he's seen Cas do so many times, the blade extends as she stabs down through his belly and pins him to that obscene floor with a crack that shakes the earth.  For a moment, her face flickers, and Dean glimpses something glowing and stern, ivory and obsidian, vermilion and gold, ageless and expressionless, and filled with cold rage.
"We trapped his mind within the confines of that room," he hears Cas say as a dozen--a hundred--glowing forms fan into a wide circle, and Dean finds Cas among them without effort, as expressionless and enraged as Anael.  "We offered him a choice; would he die, agonizingly over years of endless pain beneath our eyes before he would learn the pleasures of the rack in Hell, or live and atone for his crimes until true repentance is achieved.  In return, he may indeed have a world made in his image."
The throne room begins to shiver, and Dean can see the man's mouth work helplessly, blood spilling down his chin, before spitting out his answer in contempt.
"He picked the latter," Vera says confidently, and while it's not that Dean doesn't agree--guy definitely did--he also knows why he did and how stupid that was.  "Certain death and Hell or live?  That type, easy choice."
"Oh yeah," Dean says softly as ribbons of light crawl across the throne room floor and up the walls, and outward through the city and then the world, time stopped in an instant; for a moment, Dean feels a sweep of agony and then relief and exaltation and ecstasy multiplied by a billion--by billions--as each human soul is pulled free, reapers gathering them tenderly from their suffering and taking them away.  Then something like a pause, followed by something not unlike the slice of a blade across time and space that parts spacetime from itself.  As easily as a rug, time and the world itself are rolled backward, a world unconquered, land unpoisoned, an army unmarched: bodies are resurrected in the blink of an eye, lives lived in reverse before they're within their mother's wombs again, over and over before abruptly coming to a sudden stop; it takes a second for Dean to pick up what's so special about that point in time.  "How long?"
"Using the age of the first to be born who would die either by his hand, at his order, or in consequence of his actions to the moment Anael's sword was planted in his belly, eight hundred and sixteen years were divided from this world and placed within its own loop," Cas answers, and there's another slice, the roll of time and space free.  A pocket is carved into the curves of spacetime, and eight hundred and sixteen years are unrolled within it, begun with the sound of a newborn's first cry.  "He is everyone within it, father and son, mother and daughter, sister and brother, spouse and spouse, soldier and farmer, merchant and professional, murderer and victim, and most justly, himself.  And so shall he remain for the sum of the length of the life of each person who died by his hand, at his order, or in consequence of his actions, or until true repentance is achieved."
"A world," Dean says softly, watching it form, "in his own image."
"Such was the judgement of the Host," Cas answers, an echo of old satisfaction in his voice.  "This was our will; so it was, is, and shall be done."
"Does he know?" Vera asks, hushed, and like that, Cas slides back into human without missing a beat.
"Yes, of course," he assures them.  "Every night when he goes to sleep."
Dean does his math on Creation and the number of lives involved here, and sure, he doesn't know the history of the world in detail, but he kind of thinks he may need a lot more math.  "So when was this again?"
"I think 'he's not close to done now' is sufficient," Cas answers, giving Dean an amused look.  
From Vera's expression, she also realizes they're either missing a surprisingly large chunk of history since they started recording it…or not, since they started recording it again.  What did Cas say: they were talking about crazy weather and Cas being lucky, and he said--

Humanity passes points in their development that they can't easily fall behind, not without a concerted effort. Trust me when I say, humanity has tested this extensively and noticeably failed to do much damage to their long-term development as a species.

That would be why he was so sure that (minus Lucifer) they could get through this; they'd tested it (God, how many times?) and he knew what it took to make them fail.
"How'd we survive?" Dean asks, knowing everyone is thinking the same question but aren't sure if they can ask. One day, he'll tell them the only questions Cas won't answer are those that aren't asked because you don't know there's a question at all. "That last tenth?"
"The human genome and sexual reproduction assure nothing--with the single exception of Croatoan--can destroy all of you, only almost," Cas explains.  "Ten thousand humans had the correct genetic sequence to be partially resistant to psychic manipulation--a tiny part of a very small but very determined rebellion that had been forming against him over generations from multiple countries and ethnic groups around the world--and the damage to their minds was mild enough and their number and genetic diversity just sufficient for viability.  Otherwise, your species would have been mercifully made extinct. However, in that case, there were several promising species of primates that--"
"You can stop there," Dean tells him as Vera makes a strangled sound (and before anyone is tempted to ask about those goddamn primates and this ends in trauma and comparisons to Planet of the Apes because no way someone's not thinking that right now.  Like him).
The uptick of one corner of his mouth tells Dean just how much he'd love to expound on Creation of the Apes and is only deferring because eventually, they're gonna break down and ask anyway and it's more fun to watch them torture themselves first.
"Creation itself--not under the auspices of free will and fully under the authority of the Host--was fully repaired en toto.  Fortunately, it was within our discretion on which human structures and items are allowed to stand in the event of a major smiting event, so we were able to wipe every trace of his reign from the earth and for reasons I feel no need to explain, the remains of all civilizations in existence at that time.  Not that he left much of them."
"But we would have found something...." Kamal starts and then trails off with a complicated look.  "Everything?"
"Some of us," Cas admits, "may not have been as careful as we should have been.  I'm certain when your dating technique is more sophisticated, you'll be quite surprised: thirty kilometers outside Nairobi and five kilometers south of Mexico City might also prove enlightening.  In any case, we resettled the survivors in an area both very pleasant and fertile--we made it very, very fertile for the span of five generations--and watched very carefully to buy them enough time to learn to care for themselves again, as well as double their viable population, before scaling back our protections over the next five generations and letting them begin to be fruitful, multiply, and reclaim the world. They did very well; we were impressed." 
"You said the survivors--they were resistant?" Joe asks.  "Partially, whatever.  So we are, too, right?  We're their descendants, and Cas, for fuck's sake, don't go into detail there, yes or no."
"Yes, one of the few times selection didn't fail," Cas states, crossing his arms mutinously at being denied more fun in traumatizing the humans.  "The original problem came about because--"
"We weren't resistant," Joe says.
"No," Cas says with a frown.  "It was because the psychic in question was a sociopath, and he would have been a sociopath without his abilities.  They made it easier, granted, but in the end, it was simply a tool to gain power, and it was one he knew how to use very well."
"One fuck of a tool," Vera says, trying to sound wry and not quite managing.  Dean risks another look around, not sure how he feels about what he sees, especially when he's not sure how the hell he feels about knowing this himself.  All he can think about is Cas and Alison the day they met, Cas's expression when she showed him her mind and the tool she wielded with it: it is one fuck of a tool.
"Not like there aren't a lot of tools," Alicia says unexpectedly.  "All you have to do is know how to use it, you know?"
"Right place and time, any tool could do it," Joe agrees, mouth quirking as he looks at Cas. "Two weeks, right?"
Dean feels Cas's shoulder relax under his hand. "A week if we don't sleep."
Joe bursts out laughing, and looking around the room, Dean sees everyone start to relax: not all the way, but enough.
"You can't stop the creation of tools--I can tell you now that it never works--and you shouldn't be judged and found guilty for what you might do should you have any given tool," Cas says.  "The solution is--"
"Learn how to defend ourselves," Amanda says in resignation.
"That's one part," he agrees.  "And perhaps, to assure you never become a person who would use a tool for evil and teach others to do the same.  If everyone does that, you'll be fine."  He shrugs at everyone's incredulous expressions, slumping more deeply into the couch.  "You're partially resistant, but you're not immune, no.  So if you're wondering if that could ever happen again, yes; it would take a great deal more effort on the part of the psychic in question--and some luck--but it's possible."
Dean looks around the circle of faces and sees the reflection of his own dawning realization on every face; a street or two away is a woman who can't fight, barely shoot, and no matter how powerful she could be one day, right now she's not reading anyone's minds if she can help it and in any case sure as hell can't stop a bullet to the head: a tool of their trade to fight monsters. It's not that he thinks any of them are there right now--not yet, anyway--but that's where they could go.  Might even have to.
Cas would know that, too.  It's been a long time since a powerful psychic walked the earth; they don't live too long, Cas said.  Kill themselves, killed by others, or…killed as kids, for a sin they not only haven't committed but don't even know exists.  And in case anyone here forgot, there's a patched hole in the wall of the mess in Ichabod and a wall of invisible patches in a cabin in Chitaqua that illustrates exactly how this kind of thing goes and how it usually doesn't end.
"She could probably use a lot of friends," Vera says suddenly.  "That's gotta be miserable; like being at a crappy party and no one will stop talking to you, whether you care or not.  Imagine hearing everyone talking shit all the time?  Even if it's not about you...God.  All the time."
"And the earplugs are of substandard manufacture and don't often work."  Cas and Vera look at each other and Vera smiles reluctantly.  "We're working on that part."
Okay, time to--what were they doing again? Right, Erica and everything else: it's almost a relief.  "So, anything else?" 
"Interrogators," Amanda says, looking like she regrets reminding him but not as much as she wanted to say pretty much anything to get out of that silence.
"Let me think about it," he answers: no fucking clue, in other words.  "Vera?  Can you and Kamal meet with the team leaders before you go to the infirmary?  Catch them up on our visitor and what's going on, tell them to tell their teams."
"Got it," she says coolly--yeah, he's still on her shitlist--and getting to her feet, strides to the door before Kamal can even get up.  He quickly turns his attention to Joe.
"Quick question," he says.  "When Rohan's done with Kyle, Ana wants to know if he's free to go, or--"
"No," he answers. "He's confined to quarters until I get some time to deal with him, which assuming we survive, probably won't be until we get back to Chitaqua."
Amanda drifts toward them.  "What about Kyle?  What'd he do now?"
"Stalking and harassment."  Amanda's eyes widen.  "Speaking of, I'm gonna need you to help out Joe when we get home; we both know this happened more than once, and I want to know who, when, and exactly what he did."
Amanda and Joe exchange an unreadable look. "Okay, yeah, I can do that.  But hypothetically--if I can't--what happens to him?"
"He's out of Chitaqua either way," Dean says.  "What else I find out decides if he's gonna be driven to the border and dropped off with a ten day ration pack as well."  Then, seeing Amanda's expression, he adds, "If they don't--hypothetically--wanna do it, fine, but they deserve the chance to report.  I got enough from this alone to show him the gate and maybe slam him in the ass with it on his way out."  He returns his attention to Joe. "Confined to quarters, checks every four hours--Cas, who--"
"Literally anyone, but let me check: tentatively, Sheila and Chris, though currently they're assigned to assist Tyrone with automobiles and Claudia at Volunteer Services, respectively.  Joseph, could your team continue until dusk?"
"Sure."
"Great," Dean says.  "That--wait, where's the bathroom?"  Joe blinks. "Dude, come on, you wanna clean his room?"
"Across the hall," Joe says belatedly.  "Like, three steps."
"Awesome. Tell him he's anywhere outside those three steps when not in the bathroom or his room, he gets fulltime guards and my personal attention immediately."  Dean looks between them. "Any questions?"
"Nope," Joe says, glancing at Amanda.  "Stephanie.  Noticed how you didn't bring that up."
"Same reason you didn't," he answers. "And thanks for that; I should have said something before the meeting.  Let's keep that between ourselves until I talk to her."
"Figured as much.  Cas, give me a few minutes and--"
"I'll wait for you here."  With a sigh, Dean drops on the couch beside him as Joe and Amanda leave and turns his attention to Cas. "I like the ten day ration pack, for the record."
"I’m leaning that way myself." He debates for a long moment, but hey, no time like the present.  "You sure it was a good idea to tell them about the most evil psychic ever now?"
"There would never be a good time," Cas answers, which is true and also the point.
"Maybe not telling at all," he suggests.  "Ever?  You practically told them if we're not careful, we might end up as mind-controlled robots under Alison's psychic domination forever--or until Lucifer kills us all, which may or may not be worse, I'm still thinking."  Cas doesn't respond, but his jaw tightening minutely, and that's what he calls a red flag.  "Come on, what's going on?"
"She hasn't had a dream."
He knows it's irrational to feel betrayed, but Cas just reassured them about that.  At least, he felt reassured.  "If she doesn't have a world-changing or whatever decision, she doesn't have them."
"There's that," Cas agrees, but he doesn't risk feeling reassured again and is justified with Cas's very next words. "There's another explanation.  She already had it, and we're still waiting for what she saw to begin."
"But she hasn't had any!"
"The night before Joseph first made contact with Harlin, she woke up screaming."
"Because her answer to us joining the Alliance was what put off whatever she saw," Dean argues. "That's what she told me, anyway."
"And me as well," Cas starts.
"Actually, she didn't say that," Dean corrects himself.  "I asked her if she thought she made the right decision, and she said--she said she thought so, because her worst nightmare hadn't happened yet.  That first attack on Ichabod--we were there because of the agreement to let us join, that helped save the kids.  What could have happened to them, that sure as hell would be worth a night of screaming."
Cas hesitates.  "It is possible, yes, but--Dean, even horror can become mundane."
"You think the deaths of those kids could have just been a day ending in 'y'?" he demands. "Are you fucking with me?  Whatever, human sacrifice in the courtyard, let's move on now?"
"It would have been tragic and horrific, but this is the infected zone," Cas answers evenly, suddenly sounding tired.  "These people are those that have survived here; it may have been unique in the details, but those that haven't lived through worse have stood witness to it.  As you were a hunter to civilians in your world, so are these people to you; what you did as a job has been their lives for almost three years.  Avoiding death in a variety of exotic and terrible ways is only one part of survival; the rest is learning to how to live with it--what you've seen, what you've done, what you haven't, what you've lost--and that can be far harder."
A long time ago--another life, maybe--he watched the other Dean shoot a guy like it was nothing and couldn't imagine how he could do it.  Three weeks ago, he executed two humans helping that demon in Ichabod's courtyard without hesitation and doesn't regret a thing.  Two days ago, he gave the order for those people to be killed outside Ichabod's walls, and it wasn't hard at all.  
"We need to be ready."  Christ, he almost forgot that part.  "When she saw me the first time, that feeling--whatever the fuck that means--was we need to be ready.  She didn't know how much time we had, but it'll be enough." 
"Clairvoyance is rarely useful," Cas answers, but Dean realizes that he's avoiding looking at him.  "It's rare it isn't actively detrimental.  But it can provide guidance, at times."
Guidance.  "You have another reason."
Cas doesn't answer for way too long.  "She's tired."
"Tired."  He tries to decide if he really wants to know, not that it actually matters; he doesn't, but he needs to.  "How tired?  Cas, what does that even mean?"
"If she didn't have Teresa, and Tony and Claudia and Manuel and Sudha and Mercedes and Neeraja and Naresh and Njoya..." Cas stops, licking his lips.  "Talking to them regularly steals more of her strength, but there are many kinds of strength.  They buoy her, give her purpose and focus, and she'll continue for them when she no longer cares what happens to herself."
"What's going to happen to her?"  Cas doesn't answer. "Cas, for fuck's sake, tell me!"
"Upwards of twenty thousand minds--polite fiction, the entire state of Kansas, give or take a few, are within these walls--are pressing in on her, and all she has to defend herself is those shields," Cas answers, chillingly calm.  "And she's tired."
He thinks he knows what might wake up someone in the infected zone and make them scream.  "If she can't hold them...it could kill her?  Getting all those minds at once?"
"What would you do if you were suddenly attacked by upward of twenty thousand people?" Cas asks, still way too calm.  "It doesn't matter if they don't mean to do it; that's what they'll be doing to her just by existing.  It will be instinctive; the most likely response is she'll try to burn out every one of their minds to stop them from the destroying her.  She doesn't need skill for that, just raw power."  Dean realizes he's not breathing.  "Partial resistance will help, but only in the degree of damage done.  There will be damage, and some may die from it."
It takes him two tries to form words hearing the unspoken: worse, some of them might actually survive even if they shouldn't.  "Can we stop her?"
"We can try to kill her when her shields fail," Cas answers with the same distant calm. "But we won't have much time once they fully collapse; it took him only seconds to do the same to the entire world.  If she's still sane once it's over, she'll probably try to kill herself if she can.  If she's not--"
"Sociopath Mark II."
Cas looks up, and Dean stills at the infinite stretch of blue looking back at him, a frozen ocean.  "Why would you think that?"
Somehow, he manages to answer.  "The story of Sociopath Mark I, maybe?"
"I see."  To his surprise, Cas looks away.  "No, not that.  Alison will still be Alison.  When she's not the residual of every mind that flooded hers and experiencing their memories of what she did to them on a constant and unending loop, of course." Dean winces, but Cas's expression remains distant.  "She'll spare herself nothing but mercy; unlike the Host, she'll never give herself that."
He doesn't know what to say to that.  "Does she know...." He remembers her looking at Cas; that's why they got that heartwarming story of sociopaths gone by.  "So she wasn't just getting a description of the idiots two.  She knows what's going to happen."
"I do seem to attract requests for merciful homicide from among my not so vast acquaintance with alarming frequency," Cas agrees distantly, and Dean just stops himself from flinching.  "I'm trying not to take it personally, of course, but it does make one wonder--"
"What did she say to you?" Dean demands.
"She presumed to remind me of my duty, again," Cas answers, a flicker of bitterness in his voice.  "A habit of hers, I suppose.  At least this time, I don't have to simply watch...." He stills, eyes turned inward, and Dean feels like he's standing on the edge of a precipice--or maybe Cas is.  But where Cas is, he'll always be, and so there they are, and that's a long way down.  "I don't have to watch."
"Cas?" he prompts.
Cas looks at him, the chill melting away.  "I don't like these options, Dean.  I want better ones."
Right, options: they can do that.  "Give 'em to me."
"If we can't stop her, she must be protected after, and that includes from herself.  That will buy me time, and I'll need all I can get."
"What?"
"We'll protect her," Cas repeats.  "Her mind will recover, I'll help her do it, and when she's ready, I'll begin her instruction again.  I can help her, Dean.  I just need time."
"I'm not saying you can't," Dean starts, wondering how the hell this went--here.  "But why?"
That, he realizes belatedly, was exactly the wrong question.
"She's a human being," Cas answers flatly, and Dean's pretty sure the room just dropped about a thousand degrees.  "Her power doesn't make her less human or less worthy of help.  It's not a line, it never has been, and even if it was, crossing it doesn’t mean you can't cross back."
Right, but they're not talking about knocking over a convenience store or shooting someone by accident here.  They're talking about upwards of twenty thousand people and what's left of them when she's done.
"If she did something...." The entire state of Kansas damaged--whatever that means, but he can't stop thinking about those living husks that were left after that guy burned out their minds. Living, breathing, mindless bodies, people he knows, his people: he imagines seeing Vera, Amanda, Joe, Alicia, Kamal, Nate, Tony, Sudha like that....  "Cas," he says slowly. "I don't think I could forgive that.  Even if it was an accident."  He's not sure anyone could forgive that, or forget it.
"As is your right and that of every human being," Cas agrees.  "What does that have to do with anything?"
"Could you?  Think about it--our people, our friends--"
"Of course I have!"  Shaking his head sharply, Cas is silent for a long moment.  "Within a pocket of time is a world that will last eight hundred and sixteen years before starting anew.  Beneath the earth is a fortress, and within that fortress lies a man on a floor of human bone and wearing robes made of human flesh, with an angel's sword through his belly who forever dies and dies not yet.  His soul lives the lives of each of those upon the earth; they are all him, the memories of those who once lived within those bodies now and forever made his own." 
"For there to be justice, there must be mercy; they are one.  When we set the terms of his atonement, in mercy we also gave him the means by which he could by his own effort bring it to an end.
"He can end it at any time, but it requires this; he must repent his actions, his guilt admitted and felt, remorse be experienced.  Every night when he sleeps, he knows all; who he is, what he did, each life he has lived, and it is then that the question is asked while his soul lies bare.  He regrets nothing, he feels no guilt, and he wishes only for the chance to do further harm.  So he does, forever and ever, world without end."  
"I get it, Cas, but--"
"You don't."  Cas meets his eyes.  "Why is he there?  Why him alone and not his armies, his generals, his court, his followers: the atrocities they committed were in his name, but they did commit them and took pleasure in it.  The judgement of the Host set them free, their minds restored, their souls clean."
"He chose to do it; they didn't."  That's what Cas was talking about: mercy. "Free will: you couldn't fix him because he wasn't broken.  Them, he made them what they were."
"Exactly.  I doubt their victims would have cared about that distinction, however, nor should they have to.  There is a distinction, however: unlike them, he made himself, and only he can choose to become something else.  It's not about forgiveness: if that was the criteria for judgment, he would be free, for his mother forgave him for all he did to her.  Your forgiveness, mine, Teresa's, Manuel's, any human born: it's ours to give or withhold, it cannot be taken or forced, but that is because it is about us.  He was no less a monster for forgiveness nor would Alison be more of one in its absence; their choices are what make them who they are."
"What if...." Dean tries again.  "What if she doesn't want to be saved?"
"No one is defined by a single action or a single mistake; they are defined by all they are and try to be," Cas says urgently, holding Dean's eyes. "I would save her, because she's a human being; I would learn to forgive her, because she's my friend; I would tell her that she is not a monster, because she's not and can choose not to be.  She may not believe that, but I can believe for both of us until she can."
"Cas--" He stops, thinking: five minute rule. Can't kill it, buy time until you can get some options (or run); don't want to kill it, buy time so you won't have to.  "She won't be able to stop herself."
"It's instinct," Cas explains.  "She's not trained, Dean, and she's far too strong for someone so new to her abilities--"
"Like you were," Dean interrupts.  "Too fast, too strong, body not ready for it--but you were trained by Dean and Amy before you Fell, so you could adjust using that." Looking surprised, Cas nods, and he makes a concerted effort not to feel smug: he can feel it later.  "Okay, the shields--tell me about those."
"Right now, they act as a dam--both to protect her and others, and make it possible for her to be trained at all--but they're only as strong as her training and her will, and holding them takes practice. If she was able to break them herself to rest--if only for a few hours a day--that might have helped, but she can't with this many people here or risk exactly what we're trying to avoid.  When they break--and they must, the pressure is enormous and she is only human--she can't hold back the resulting flood any more than a single person could stop a river.  A very big river, it goes without saying."
This isn't like with Carol; he's got to know the right questions to ask.  "Any warning for our dam breaking?  Anything, Cas--will she know, can she tell someone?  How fast is it gonna happen?"
"She'll know, yes.  She'll try to hold it back when the collapse starts, and this being Alison, might very well succeed from sheer panic; this would be when she would like me to end her life, by the way.  Teresa may be able to assist in slowing the deterioration, but not for long.  At best, perhaps half an hour."
That's better than none: he'll take it.  "Her range now?  Safe minimum distance?"
"Thirty miles," he answers, and Dean wishes that was a surprise; that number's becoming a theme.
"We'll put it at forty, just in case."  Cas raises his eyebrows encouragingly.  "What if we send a team with her and she leaves Ichabod?  Find someplace to hole up, they know warding, or hey, you or Teresa can teach them what to use." Let her get some sleep, too, Jesus: decades of hunting, and it's only living with Cas that's taught him the value of making someone get their ass to bed at regular intervals.  
"Now?" Cas's eyes widen, not a good sign.  "That would not be a good idea, or I would have suggested that already."
He takes a deep breath: easy is for losers or people not him. "Why?"
"For one, Erica."
And that's a good (frightening) one.  "Right."
"Erica and the rest of our former compatriots are outside the walls, and if you don't think they're watching this town, you were concussed in some way and I'd like to know why you didn't tell me." Fine, he missed that; that's why he's got Cas.  "Alison is a powerful psychic, but she's tired and not well-trained, especially in offensive techniques; the only way she could protect herself is to try and burn out their minds--considering they're using meatsuits, that would do nothing but perhaps give them terrible headaches--and opening her mind to do that much might be enough to cause what we're trying to avoid.  Either way, she'd make a truly terrifying and disastrous new outfit for Erica."
"So definitely not that." They can marker on an anti-possession symbol, but there's a difference in strength, and Erica just might be able to sense it.  What he wouldn't do for a tattoo-gun, Christ.  For no reason, he remembers what Dolores told him and something he's been wondering about comes into focus.  "They're digging latrines and using chamberpots north of Fifth."
Cas's eyebrows draw together sharply.  "I assumed the water restrictions were leading there."
"It went over well," Dean continues.  "She even got volunteers to help with the digging."  Cas nods agreement.  "Also, Naresh needed to change buildings for a jail, Ichabod never needed one."
"With this many people," Cas says, "that's not a surprise.  I'm surprised he only needed one."
"Exactly." Dean meets Cas's eyes.  "Both infirmaries are working overtime--Dolores said it was all the problems of too many people, not enough space, makes sense, except that's the only place with problems. Is it just me or are we missing a major problem because it doesn't exist?  Other than catalyst events?  Which we notice, sure, but I wonder if we would if they weren't the only things breaking the peace and serenity of too many people and not enough space living in fear of the unknown?  And now without indoor plumbing?"
Cas sits back with a thoughtful look. "That, yes."
"The teams we assign her--so far their job is to keep her from killingherself; they've never reported problems with the new residents during her town-wide tours, and she's doing them every day.  Twice, sometimes, if there's a problem." He remembers that first tour with Alison, when Cas was hanging out with Crowley.  Giving orders with the expectation of  obedience, that was a little surprising, with Ichabod's mayor being more a settler of disputes between groups, but needs must, as Cas would say.  Wading into the refugee centers without hesitation was stressing as hell for him, but Alison--wasn't stressed.  Or not by them, anyway: for them, hell yes, checking everything twice, sending volunteers running for more of this or that.  "Cas, give me a history lesson: too many people, not enough space, in a strange place and driven here by a geas promoting fear.  Hell, leave off the last part and just say 'fear, reasons'; is it just me or are we living in best case scenario? Like, the kind that just doesn't ever happen?"
"The lack of mobs has been something of a relief.  I'm not terribly fond of them."  Crossing his arms, Cas looks at him intently.  "I know what you're asking, and I don't know."
"Millennia of psychics, and you don't know if she's--doing something?"
"Generally, strong psychics who both manage to survive and lack a desire to acquire power tend to prefer being somewhere that lacks people, like the peaks of very inaccessible mountains or the center of very vast deserts.  Sometimes remote islands, provided they can find a boat or swim very well.  Missouri and Pamela were both exceptions for many reasons.  Which reminds me," he adds. "I should see if Missouri's house is still in a state to be examined.  That would help a great deal."


Dean looks his 'anytime now'.
"Just a thought for the future," Cas says dismissively.  "Even the best shields have a certain amount of leakage, and she's tired; doubtless some amount is necessary to relieve a little of the pressure.  If it was coercive, Teresa--and the earth--would have reacted.  If I were guessing, she has a very calming influence. It's not often a leader means what they say, and her words as well as her actions match her intent, and for that matter, that her intent could be sensed, at least subconsciously."
"She told me she wasn't a people person," Dean says wryly, remembering Alison's haunted expression when relating her impulse to hug people to make them feel better.  "It can't be helping, to hang out with that many people that close every day." Cas shakes his head, and yeah, that's what he thought.  "But she does it anyway."  She may even have to, even if she doesn't know why she's doing it.  Because scared people become dangerous mobs very quickly, and if they use Alison's daily tour as a guide, maybe in under a day.
So their choices are 'sudden mobs', 'possible possession by Erica', 'the Misborn (who knows what)', and 'upwards of twenty thousand people with damaged minds', and now that he thinks about it, this isn't multiple choice, it's 'pick more than one or all of them, they could all happen'.  There are no good choices here.  Literally everything is working against them, and new things show up just in case they get a handle on the old ones (he's waiting for someone right now to knock, enter without waiting for permission, and throw in something else just on the principle of why not).  He runs through it all again, looking for something, anything--and for fucking once, that actually works.
"Let's split the difference," he says, putting it together and leaving the gaps for Cas to tell him about.  "Do nothing until critical; she's got a team with her already, we'll switch that to twenty-four/seven and give them a jeep with a full gas tank to chauffeur Alison on her visits around town.  We'll talk to Christina and Sean--and Alison--and their orders are, when she tells them she's--whatever--they toss her in the jeep, hit the gas, and drive.  Not like she wants Apocalypse: Alison either." Cas nods slowly; okay, so far so good.  "I'll draw--or you will," he adds, scowling at his right hand, "the anti-possession symbol on Alison; it won't be all that strong, but it might be enough with four people in the jeep with her that have the permanent version.  Micah's still Erica's priority; she's probably not gonna take a break to see if that symbol washes off with soap and scrubbing, and hey, whoever's driving, don't fucking stop to find out. If Erica's already gone...."
Cas picks up his cue.  "The Misborn."
"Hear me out.  Just a few humans in a jeep compared to giant city of 'em: which is gonna win if they're that close?" Cas opens his mouth.  "Cas, this is maybe; I get we're risking Alison, but we're also risking everyone in this town, and we're not getting best case here, so 'good enough' is gonna have to do it.  We'll work on it if we have time, but we need something now to get us started."
"Both," Cas says discouragingly, but his expression is thoughtful. "However, the jeep won't be a stationary target, either.  They might not even notice them, since their goal is the town itself."  He brightens, which Dean kind of wishes didn't worry him. "And an ex-angel is very distracting; I can stand on the walls and wave."
Good enough, Dean reminds himself firmly; he can always knock Cas out and throw him in Sudha's room for babysitting.  "Sounds good. Now, which one of us is gonna talk to Alison?"
Cas opens his mouth.
"Not it," Dean says smugly. "I wonder who's left?"
Joe and Cas are barely gone five minutes for their tour of Micah's new home (hopefully, that will put Cas in a better mood) when there's a knock at the door.  "Come in."
The door opens enough for Sarah to look inside.  "Dean?  Do you have a few minutes?"
"Hey," he says, surprised.  "Sure.  Uh, Vera and Kamal are getting the team leaders together right now."
"The meeting is in twenty minutes," she says, opening the door fully and pausing on the threshold.  "We're waiting for Christina and James to arrive."
"Then now's fine."  As she steps inside, closing the door behind her, Dean reflects 'you send Sarah when you want to lie' makes sense when you realize she almost never changes expression; that kind of makes it hard to work out what this is about.  "Uh, sit down," he says belatedly, dropping into the middle of the couch, and she selects the chair directly across from him. "What's going on?"  Then, remembering Kat exists, "Any problems? More, I mean?"
"No new incidents," she answers immediately, giving him no time to feel relieved before saying, "I take responsibility for the spread of the information regarding Alicia's duties in Ichabod after the attack three weeks ago.  I understand it might not be convenient for you to relieve me of duty now, but when we return to Chitaqua--"
"Wait." He takes a minute to get with the program. "Start over.  What?" Then (this being Sarah), "Don't repeat what you just said: bullshit. I gotta know, though, how this is your fault."
"She's on my team and is my responsibility.  I heard Kat and Carol talking with Kyle that night, as well as parts of their conversation over the course of the day," she answers coolly, face smooth.
"You heard them talking shit about Alicia?"
"About a large number of people, though not specifically that," she replies, and Dean files that away as 'probably will have to find out what else' though fuck if he want to.  "Kat was acting--she seemed calmer," she says suddenly, lowering her eyes, and Dean wonders if it's personality or something else that keeps her so contained, that just seeing that tells him how much stress she's under.  "She's always been an extrovert, and I assumed company was helping her.  Under the circumstances, I didn't think to intercede or report it."
"Dude, we start trying to regulate people talking shit about each other--I don't even know how we'd do that.  I sure as hell don't want to."  While it might have pissed off him to overhear, he wouldn't have done anything, either.  Or seen this coming, because normal people don't weaponized that shit for mass destruction.  "She's grieving, she's pissed, she got a sympathetic audience, that's gonna happen."
"She's angry, yes, but she's also convinced herself that...I'm not sure how to explain it." A faint line appears between her eyebrows that Dean interprets as a frown; he may just be witnessing what Sarah looks like when she's really pissed.  "She knows what happened, Dean, but she keeps--like when Cas told her that her request for a cabin for her and Andy was on hold due to lack of cabins.  There are no others--you can count them--but she refused to believe it."
The closest Dean's come to literally throwing someone out of their cabin is when he came home to hear Cas dealing with that.  "I remember."
"In retrospect, I shouldn't have recommended she be allowed Carol's company--or Kyle's," she continues with the barest edge in her voice: very, very pissed.  "They encouraged her in her grievances, and while I acquit Kyle of malice though not stupidity, in Carol's case--I think it was deliberate."
Huh.  "She's fucking with Kat's head on purpose?"
"If you mean that she deliberately took advantage of Kat's grief, yes," Sarah answers.  "However, she wouldn't be able to if Kat didn't welcome it.  Kat--I thought I knew her."
"Grief can fuck you up."  It's the best he can do right now.  "It makes people crazy."
"Yes, so I understand," she answers, looking at him intently.  "It can make it difficult for someone to think clearly, leading to impulsive decisions they would not make under other circumstances."  He nods warily.  "Kat didn't have a hangover this morning, unlike Kyle and two others who were invited to join them for a few hours last night."
"Okay." He wonders how clearly he's thinking right now.  "Her tolerance better?"
"Yes," she says.  "Though Kyle's is almost as good, and the other two not far off.  When I cleaned the room this morning, none of the empty bottles were Kat's drink of choice, but two thirds were Kyle's."
He straightens: how very not impulsive that is. "You don't say."
"Kat seemed better this morning when I checked on her before going on duty at dawn," Sarah says.  "More like herself.  When Joseph recalled me and told me what had happened this morning, I spoke to Kat and told her what happened in the mess.  She expressed the appropriate amount of remorse for her actions, regretted the overindulgence last night that led to poor judgment, was shocked by Carol spreading it through the infirmary, and told me that she would like to apologize, both to you, Alicia, Dolores, and Alison, for the harm she inadvertently caused."
You send Sarah when you want to lie; he's gonna bet you also send her when someone's lying to you.  "She went right down the checklist."
"I was impressed by her thorough sense of responsibility," Sarah agrees. "Then I asked how she knew what Carol said in the infirmary, since I hadn't mentioned it."  The line appears again.  "She then became overcome with grief. I ordered her confined to quarters and recalled my team to watch her."
Dean bites back a suggestion of where they can put Kat (outside the fucking wall).  That would (probably) be an overreaction. "Good call."
"Regarding Kyle's part in this.... I think he can be acquitted of knowingly assisting Kat and Carol; he thought he was speaking to a friend, and I doubt Kat told him that at that moment he wasn't." Sarah hesitates for a moment before meeting his eyes.  "I haven't spoken to the other team leaders on the subject, but the nature of the confidence that Kyle disclosed concerns us all."
He keeps his expression interested, but Christ. "How?"  
"Alicia's actions were performed in the line of duty; Kat and Kyle used that against her, but they shouldn't have thought they could nor should they have been able to.  The blame must also rest on those who upon hearing it not only spread it further, but presumed to sit in judgement on her for doing her duty."  Minutely, her jaw tightens.  "That anyone from Chitaqua would do that was...unexpected.  And unwelcome."
Relieved, he nods; he thinks he may know what's going on.  "I don't think they thought any farther than 'kids'," he offers, wondering how many of them may have lost their own kids.  Mike can't be the only one, and he doubts that the only family who died in Erica's basement were adults.  Cas said it himself: nothing more horrifying than a Croat kid and knowing you have to kill them, and Carol's (genuine) question got him thinking on that.
It's probably pretty comforting to think there are things you'd never do (he knows all about that) or even that you couldn't.  If Alicia did it, though--someone they know, someone like them--either they're wrong about that, or (comforting, remember) something's wrong with her, maybe she likes it, could be anything. Because fuck knows, liking a job is the only way anyone would ever do it; if that's not true, they may have to do shit they don't like, they aren't okay with, that may give them nightmares, but has to be done anyway, and can't fucking have that. 
"There's a reason the executioner always wears a hood."  He shakes his head when Sarah tilts her head curiously.  "Drew and Phil are with Kat?"
"Yes."
"Do I need to ask how she took that?"
"Predictably," Sarah answers, which Dean takes to mean 'lots of crying and saying the shittiest things she can think of' (she's a goddamn genius at that).  "Phil and Drew share my feelings on this.  We'll assure she doesn't take any further negative action."
"Shit job," he says honestly.  "I'll talk to Cas about who can help you out; no one should have to deal with that full time."  Yesterday, he didn't have anyone confined anywhere; today, he's gonna have three people and one in an actual cell under guard.  "Not your fault, Sarah.  Resignation refused, and we'll talk more when we get back to Chitaqua."
She nods as she gets to her feet.  "Thank you."
"It's secure," Cas says after he and Joe return, seemingly soothed by imagining Micah in there.  "And sufficiently bleak as well.  I sent a team to acquire a table and several chairs as well as to install a lock on the door. I'm trying to remember if Ichabod has any recording devices we could use.  The laptops are equipped with webcams, but that isn't terribly subtle."
"Not that I don't approve," Dean starts, because he may not know the reason, but if Cas wants to do it, he approves (barring one on one's with Hellhounds, of course), "but why?"
"For one, because we don't have a giant unsubtle window to watch him," Joe retorts from his lounge in a frayed armchair.  "That means we're restricted to eyes and ears in the room, and Dean, my hand hurts.  Let record and make it easy on ourselves."
"For another, the person who knows him best and is most likely to get him to talk is also the one that shouldn't be in that room," Cas adds, seating himself in the corner of the couch by Dean and by dint of sheer Cas-ness doesn't immediately start to sink (though tucking a leg underneath him probably helps, yeah).  "Recordings are an excellent substitute.
"I was thinking that," Joe admits.  "Wonder if we have the same reasons."
"If Alicia could get anything out of him...." Dean starts, not liking himself for even thinking it, not if he's right, and honestly, he hopes he's not.
"Micah wants her there," Cas says.
Joe nods.  "That'd be it."
Dean considers.  "He only asked for her once."
"He asked for his wife," Joe clarifies.  Dean looks his 'I just said that' and Joe sighs noisily.  "Remember what I said about marriage assuming certain things?  Like with me and Monica?" He nods.  "Dean, I didn't talk out with Monica exactly what she wanted, when, and how just for the times when she couldn't speak for herself; a third of the time, they'd look to me to answer questions first even if she was right there. I had to be ready to support whatever she said like I knew what I was talking about, because they thought I knew more than her."
"So he thought that's all he needed to say."
"Yeah," Joe says. "Micah's script was a little out of date, but with you--just two guys, about the same age--he didn't think he had to work for it.  He's assuming the question you're asking yourself is 'is there any good reason not to reunite this married couple', especially now that he's coming to Headquarters, though how he missed your transparent lack of fucks is a mystery but not much of one.  Trust me, as Monica's ex-husband who watched this shit go down way too many times, that was both noticeable and refreshing.  So yes, he expects to see her, and Dean, may be just me here, but I think it's a little weird that one, he wants to see the woman who put a knife in his thigh to get rid of him--
"I forgot to ask--does he have a limp?" Cas interrupts curiously.  
"We'll know when Amanda brings him back," Dean says.  "Watch him perp walk through reception."
"--and two--related to one--why the fuck he didn't even bother complaining about it.  Sure, none of us would have taken it seriously because fuck him, but he's a lawyer, so why not accuse one of your lieutenants of attempted murder?"  Something flickers across his face, there and gone, but meeting his eyes, Dean nods slightly; they're both thinking about that.  "I seriously doubt it's for reminiscing on the good times or reconciliation."
"He wants her to do something." Dean tries to think of circumstances under which Alicia would do something other than maybe stab him again and get it right this time.  "Or not do something, maybe."
"Or just create more confusion," Joe agrees.  "Basically, I can't think of a single good reason he wants to see her, and it might tell us something when he realizes we're not gonna let him."
"This is gonna be fun," Dean says glumly. "So interrogators--"
"I should go do--something ," Joe says immediately, making a face at Dean.  "Anything you need?  Technically, I'm officer on duty."
"Haruhi and Rosario should be assigned to the infirmary," Cas answers.  "If Carol has any more revelations about anyone from Chitaqua that she feels the need to share, I'd like to know about it."
"Kind of wonder why she didn't tell more," Joe admits as he stands up.  "Not like she'd have any reason to confine herself to the truth, so lots of material."
"Yeah," Dean agrees, rolling his eyes at Joe's sloppy salute on his way out of the door.  "So I gotta pick interrogators."
"I would volunteer," Cas says slowly, like he's trying to find even a shitty euphemism and there's just not one, "but my skillsets are...."
"I know," Dean assures him, pissed all over again for new and exciting reasons; Cas would actually be really good at questioning people.  Half the job is appearance and attitude, and that blank stare alone is a whole other skill.  The ex-angel thing might really work for this, too; terrifying suspects isn't a drawback, and honestly, Cas's people skills are better than some of the police and FBI agents Dean's met who did it professionally.  But no: Dean goddamn Winchester got an angel and taught him all the skillsets to be the best creepy Henchman #1 ever to exist.  "I'm still working on the fact I'm ordering someone interrogated," he retorts. "And if you say anything about demons--"
"I wasn't going to," Cas says mildly.  "But if it would help, I will, so we can argue about it, though I will need you to tell me which side I should take."
He turns sideways to try a glare, which makes Cas bite his lip on a smile.  "Okay, what?"
"I was just thinking," he answers.  "I've never had make-up sex.  If we are to die tomorrow, a fight now--assuming we were quick about it--would assure I could cross that off my bucket list in the next three hours.  Which side should I take?"
Dean contemplates how you pick up a skillset that includes conversationally relevant sex jokes. "Everything I do," he hears himself say, "I'm saying that it's okay to do this or it's not.  Dude, this didn't go well when it was just Sam doing the mini-me before he grew up and figured out I was...." He searches for the right word. "Me."
Cas stares at him for just long enough for Dean to understand he thinks he's an idiot.  "I'm going to guess this is you worrying that you're doing or going to do something terrible that will set a precedent that will eventually lead to horrors untold."
"You'd think so," he answers; what are the things he couldn't do?  That's becoming a very short list, and he has a feeling it's only going to get shorter from here on out.  "Rosario."
"What?"
"You were telling me about Rosario and Haruhi and--" He shrugs.  "Look, I don't know."
"Why I picked Rosario."  Cas turns to settle in the corner, drawing up his other leg, and impulsively, Dean tugs it across his lap and earns himself a surprised smile. Curving a hand below Cas's knee, he leans his head against his other hand and waits.  "The first class at Chitaqua that I instructed, I taught with Dean's assistance," he says.  "The second one was the first I taught alone. I told you that was the first enjoyed teaching, but it would be fair to say it was also the first that I wasn't a terrible instructor."
"Is this where you blame yourself for teaching Assassination 101 or--"
"This is far more mundane, I assure you," Cas replies.  "You said you noticed Haruhi.  She's extraordinary; natural talent in a variety of skills allied with experience, drive, and a highly competent instructor.  Time and experience will only make her better.  She can't not be."
Dean nods.  "Not everyone can be Haruhi, I get that."
"I did the same thing," he says.  "When I trained the first class at Chitaqua, I noticed the best--Erica, Stanley, Terry, Cynthia, Luke--"
"Christ," Dean interjects, because of course Cas's best students in that first class were his future killers.  Like, could it happen any other way?
"--Ray, Melanie, Sarah, and Risa," he continues.  "And the worst, of course, since my duty was to see they weren't killed seconds after stepping off the training field.  I evaluated their strengths and weaknesses for a week, then tailored their education to that.  Those who were very good, I focused on their strengths and assured competence in all else; for those--not--I emphasized mitigating their weaknesses.  Those between had neither the benefit of my very questionably positive or negative attention--probably a relief, in retrospect.  I suspect they worked very hard and achieved competence on the hope of avoiding just that."
Dean lets Cas see that he's mentally reviewing the definition of 'competent' as it applies to Chitaqua, which is pretty much its own standard.  "Yeah, I got nothing.  It worked, in case you're curious."
"Of course it worked; the curriculum was designed to work," he answers impatiently, like Dean is just doing this to annoy him.  "It worked very well, especially in teaching three quarters of the class that they would never be anything more than competent in anything they ever did so why try. Or they were the sum of their weakest skill, I'm not sure.
"The second class was different."  He smiles faintly. "Vera hated something called PE class and it was a literal effort to make her do laps.  I had to have Amanda chase her, and her reaction to firearms was bafflement, which is why I checked that they were empty before letting her touch them."  He shakes his head at the weirdness of humanity (Dean's with him there). "Then there was Amanda.  She was so good, Dean, and she had no idea because she compared herself against Debra, who was--herself.  It probably didn't help she coveted Debra's lover, no."
Dean raises an eyebrow. "Jesus, if you could tell back then...."
"It was very unsettling," he answers, frowning.  "Pornography led to me to believe this would eventually result in a rage-fueled erotic public threesome in mud--I even checked regularly for rain--"
"How much was Bobby drinking when you discovered the Penthouse Channel?" Dean demands; 'a lot', on a guess, would be an understatement.
"I transmuted it into single malt-flavored water when needed," he answers dismissively.  "This was nothing like that.  Imagine two vaguely human-shaped wolverines who pretended to be friends until either they were holding weapons or my back was turned.  And I had to be clean and sober for all of it, every day," he adds incredulously, like he can't figure out he managed.
"And Vera...."
"Pretended--badly--that it wasn't happening; if only all of us could have been so fortunate," he says resentfully.  "Though you could predict whether Debra had slept on the couch or not the night before by who started the first fight the next morning, I discovered.  My first class was focused, determined--"
"Really goddamn crazy." You don't get that kind of per capita assassin number from run of the mill crazy; this is special edition shit.
"That goes without saying," he agrees.  "Relentless in acquiring the needed skills, and probably utterly terrified of me while harboring growing resentment that I treated them like interchangeable human-shaped parts, and not--well, Joseph, for example.  He wasn't lying about being in the Israeli army, but I still suspect that was some sort of implanted memory by means and for reasons unknown; Kamal and Jody would be fine before some exercise reminded them of competitive rollerblading and argued the point--hint, far too often, if only demons came with attached wheels--James and Christina were very earnest and obeyed every order to the letter, which you would think would be a relief but wasn't because left to their own devices on what to do without me to tell them, they'd do nothing at all. And that's before Zack seduced Nate--after Sean seduced him, in case this requires context--and the only reason I didn't need to watch for Sean and Nate to kill each other is that no matter how hard Sean tried to bait him, Nate genuinely didn't care. Amanda and Debra would sometimes pause their rampant very non-erotically charged hostility to shout them into submission as well, of course."
Dean realizing he's grinning.  "And the rest?"
"Lee was focused and determined, but silently so; it was two weeks into training before I ever heard his voice--excellent baritone, perfect pitch, in case you're curious; Ana was ridiculously competent, being a Marine, but didn't seem to care what it was she was doing or even why; Mira was quiet from intimidation and a dislike of conflict and possessed the inexplicable ability to actually shrink in size if you made the mistake of trying to look at her directly; Penn whistled off-key always, but constantly when she was nervous, which was every moment on the training field; and Matt and Lena were obedient without being at all earnest and often not nearly as subtle in the use of sarcasm as they thought they were and made no attempt whatsoever to do it quietly. Then there was Mark, who was almost as good as Amanda and seemed to be content to do everything she could but not quite as well."
"And Debra?"
"Resented being in training with those of less skill, resented me for making her--Dean was excluded from blame, of course--resented Amanda for reasons already covered, and found everyone's lack of professionalism unacceptable and took valuable time from resenting everything else to tell us all about it.  She also disliked me personally, and disliked me even more because I didn't particularly care."
"Kamal told me first day you told them they were boring," Dean tells him, grin widening at Cas's low laugh.  "What did Vera say to you anyway?"
"The word 'fuck' featured prominently in every possible iteration and anywhere she could make it fit," he admits. "And I was bored, up until that moment.  The best--Amanda, Mark, Debra--and the worst--Joe, Vera--were identified, the rest would be fine...but Mira's unaccountable need to apologize when she made a mistake was like vocal sandpaper, by the tenth day, I wanted to stab Lee just to see if he had a voice at all or this was a case of mutism at which time I'd apologize, while Matt and Lena stood in actual daily danger of being forcibly muted and it's not as if I didn't have a variety of gags."
Dean has to takes a moment (not for the gag thing, he hasn't seen the collection yet, but of course Cas has one, probably in the utility-library-closet) to visualize non-erotically-charged muddy combat on one side of the field, Sean failing to beat up an indifferent Nate on the other, Jody and Kamal arguing about Nike versus Reebok (versus Adidas, if he remembers right), two wisecrackers commenting on everything while Vera and Zack tried to pretend they weren't part of two separate love triangles and the rest being--themselves.  While Cas dealt with a cross-section of humanity at its most freakish that he was supposed to teach how to save the world or at least not get killed trying to do it.
"And then they saw one of their classmates executed for Croatoan after a mission, and spent a day watching their instructor and another classmate unsubtly being stalked to their potential death," he finishes tonelessly, and Dean's smile fades.  "It had something of a sobering effect."
He squeezes Cas's knee reassuringly; there's more than one reason Cas had to be stoned out of his mind to talk about it the first time.  Micah's version told him a lot, including why Cas couldn't have done it any other way.
"Boring," Cas says unexpectedly.  "They listened closely, followed instruction, worked hard and consistently--it was maddening. Despite my policy against sex with current students, it was unbearably tempting to seduce Zack--Lee actually did, possibly just to see what the fuss was about, and I must admit I was curious as well--and see if that would help."
"They were scared," Dean offers; there's a difference when what you're scared of is behind the walls that protect you from what scares you outside them.  "How long did it take them to get over it?"
"About a week," he answers.  "It was all almost-competence and focused attention and low-grade depression for all, like a desaturated training montage set to funeral music--Stairway to Heaven, perhaps, or Garth Brooks' The Dance," he muses.  "Which according to a very reputable website was commissioned by funeral directors to increase business in conjunction with the CIA and spread via mind control."
"They might have been onto something there."  There's no good explanation for how that song--for almost a decade--seemed to be playing or about to play no matter what station the radio was on, including the times he's pretty sure the radio was supposed to be off.  Dean's not completely divorced from the musical revolutions of the late eighties and early nineties--if nothing else, the number of people wearing flannel was hard to miss, and hot girls suddenly started going for the 'haven't showered in days' thing (not that he's complaining), and then the horrifying discovery that line dancing wasn't a new and weird form of evil (at least, not supernatural, or so he was told)--but there's that and then there's how it (inevitably) came on the radio after a (shitty) hunt, at which time he (didn't) cry (sob) over the wheel of the Impala because he imagined Mom dancing with Dad in the kitchen (pregnant with Sam, of course), fuck that goddamn song.  "Or a geas," he says in dawning realization. He's gotta ask Teresa about that.
Cas nods thoughtfully; yeah, they're definitely gonna look into it.  "Vera and I were waiting for them, as usual, and when everyone arrived, they grimly warmed up in monotonously depressing formation, we briefly reviewed the relevant lessons from the day before, and...." He makes a face.  "Penn started to whistle, Mira apologized for something, and they started acting like themselves and not--whatever they were doing."
Like Cas said: even horror can become mundane, and you learn to live with it.  Fear's not any different; you can only be terrified for so long before something has to give.  You learn to live with it; it's hard, yeah, but it helps when you know everyone around you is doing the same damn thing.
"In any case, I knew them.  Vera has extremely steady hands--no surprise there--and superlative eyesight and precision; Joseph's height and physical strength was best suited to blunt instruments and more--and larger--weapons than most people could easily lift and carry; Kamal and Jody's rollerblading proclivities had given them superlative reflexes--I was surprised." Cas starts to smile again.  "Then there was Alicia."
Dean fights not to straighten.  "Alicia--wait, that was during two months of extracurricular hunter playtime, right?"
"That's exactly what it was in retrospect.  As you're aware, there's not much to do in Chitaqua, and since everyone had to keep in training anyway, the evening sessions at least offered variety.  Which is why--I think--that not just the second class attended them.  Amanda learned how to teach people who already knew the curriculum but would like the refresher, and I taught other things that weren't covered in class or not covered so thoroughly."
"Let me guess--knife fighting."
"It wasn't popular--humans generally prefer guns, and they are a vast improvement over the slingshot--but Amanda wasn't used to being....let's say 'not good' at something.  A gun person," he adds thoughtfully, nodding. "I see what Alicia meant.  In any case, Amanda didn't have a natural aptitude for bladework, it felt awkward to her, so she didn't like it.  Before, I would have left it once she achieved competence--and it must be said, she was still better than the rest of the class--but she wouldn't even attempt to improve.  I told her she was acting like a child, she would argue with me--"
"Joan really was living the dream," Dean mutters, remembering what Joe told him about her regular attendance at hunter playtime.
Cas tilts his head.  "What?"
"Nothing." Everyone else got drama and tragedy, but Joan got Your Life Is Insanely Hot Apocalyptic Porn; what the hell?  "Keep going."
Cas's eyes narrow suspiciously before settling again.  "So I started her on knife dances--those only fit for a child--so she'd be forced to learn the movements and advance, from sheer boredom if nothing else.  About a week after we began, I noticed that Alicia was watching and realized she might have been since we started.  For the next week, every night, she would excuse herself from whatever she was working on and very subtly observe us.  I was impressed."
"And then she asked to play?"
He shakes his head.  "Amanda unconvincingly turned her ankle during the second of the intermediate dances due to frustration and insisted on taking a break, so I invited Alicia to join us.  I wasn't sure she would do so, but she did, and I gave her the knife--a wooden practice blade--and asked her if she wanted to try."
That'd be almost three months after that night at the cabin.  "And what happened?"
"Before I could clarify I'd demonstrate--and that I meant the first beginner dance--Alicia reproduced the entire sequence that Amanda had just failed to perform at full speed without flaw," Cas says, mouth quirking.  "To say I was surprised would be an understatement."
Despite himself, he grins.  "I bet."
"I asked her if she wanted to try the other dances I'd taught Amanda from the first. She  proceeded to perform all of them from the simplest beginner sequences--there are seven--and the first three of the intermediate without a single flaw.  The fourth intermediate was the first one she had trouble with, but it wasn't in knowledge; her speed and reflexes weren't yet sufficient for the more intricate movements."
"Without a demo?" Cas nods. "How?"
"The first question I asked when I told her to stand down--generally, doing eleven dances back to back isn't recommended for your first time on the field, but she didn't seem to realize she was about to collapse," Cas answers.  "She said she'd been watching us."
He's seen a few of those between Cas and Amanda, and he's not sure he could remember the first goddamn move.  "Seriously?"
"Knife dances aren't literally dances," he says. "At least, I didn't think of them as such, not until I saw Alicia perform them.  She said something about cheerleading and winning state competition three years in a row, it was--I have no idea, but from what I could gather, that isn't a sport in which weapons are involved but does require a great deal of choreography and dance training."
Dean tries and fails to remember much about cheerleaders other than vague memories of six high schools of football season and the Laker Girls.  Hot girls in short skirts: he wasn't exactly up to examining what they were doing while being hot back then.  "Cheerleading.  Teaches you knife dancing."
"I need to find a recording of a half-time show for a major league or college football game," he muses.  "Alicia assured me if you think of the pom-poms as small and very specialized whips, we could learn a great deal from the Dallas Cowboy cheerleaders."
Dean just nods; how did Chitaqua get these people?  Something in the air?
"Knife dances aren't meant for combat themselves, obviously; they're an exhibition of skill, and their major use in training is to teach the movements and build muscle memory until they become reflexive," Cas continues. "Usually, the transition is difficult for students, even extraordinary ones, but Alicia grasped the connection almost immediately.  Once she knew the whole, she could pick out the individual parts of each dance and assemble them with very little effort when she started translating it to combat.
"Watching Alicia work, I realized she had extraordinary body awareness, like Mira, and as it turns out, she was instructed from a very young age in classical ballet and several contemporary forms of dance as well as gymnastics.  Apparently, that's standard for competitive cheerleaders who wish to win state, whatever that is.  Her spatial awareness was even better; she always knew where everyone was, which is how cheerleaders don't kill each other during dangerously intricate routines, or so Alicia explained."
"The more you know."
"We should canvass for more cheerleaders," Cas says seriously.  "She told me she was choreographer for her squad from her sophomore year, so memorizing performances and picking out the individual parts--recognizing them at all--was second nature.  She also told me all the dances had a time signature, so she just followed the beat.  I had Amanda teach her unarmed combat again, but from a performance perspective; she learned routines, set them to a beat, then took them apart to use as needed when fighting."
More and more, Dean sees the teacher in Cas, the guy who really likes teaching, and hates this Dean a little more for fucking that up, too, before Cas even got a chance to realize it.  He's gonna get that back, Dean decides; time, students, whatever he needs, but it's gonna happen.  "I saw Alicia almost kick a Croat's head off.  I mean literally here, it was barely hanging on by some skin when it went down.  You're telling me she learned that from dancing?"
"She must have been tired," Cas says in amusement. "Or in a hurry, since I assume that was during your adventures outside the walls." Dean rubs a slow circle against the side of Cas's knee.  "What a student can do now is obvious, but what they could is impossible to know in full, and that's very easy to overlook.  I certainly missed it with Alicia."
Huh.  "That's why you picked Rosario?  Something Amanda overlooked?"
"Not exactly.  I picked three, but Rosario was the one that surprised Amanda.  She placed well outside even Amanda's 'maybe' list before evaluations."
"But?" Dean prompts, because he knows there's a 'but'.
"She didn't give up."  Cas frowns at the knee of his jeans.  "She was at every training Amanda gave in Ichabod before that day and showed up for evaluation despite being very aware she wasn't at the standard of more than twenty of the other potential recruits.  It was obvious from the moment she stepped on the practice field and she had to know it.  She did almost everything wrong in every exercise, though it probably didn't help that both Amanda and Mark were terrible at pretending I wasn't there to observe them."
"But she didn't walk."
"She didn't walk, and many better than her did," Cas confirms.  "She finished the last exercise of the day and waited to hear the results with the others.  Amanda's observations of her at the earlier sessions seemed to indicate she has no idea what 'giving up' is or how to do it. Teresa concurred and later told me a terrifyingly heartwarming story of how two weeks after Rosario arrived in Ichabod, they were attacked, and Rosario--who'd never used a gun--was found in the street with a rifle she didn't know how to use, missing every shot and turning it to use as a bludgeon when she ran out of bullets.  Which is exactly what she did.  She stood there and beat some sort of clawed, furry reptile to death--Teresa said it looked like the offspring of a seps and a Siamese cat, which both intrigues and revolts me in equal measure--with the butt of her rifle."
Jesus Christ.  "Why was she alone in the middle of the street shooting monsters? Where was patrol?"
"Fighting off the rest of them south of town," he answers.  "A few got away and wandered onto Main Street.  Teresa--who was the one who dragged her to safety, much against Rosario's will--asked her why she didn't stay inside like anyone sane or--if she must shoot at it--why on earth she didn't at least go back to safety after she ran out of bullets," he continues, exasperation creeping into his voice that Dean bets was in Teresa's when she was telling him about it.  "Her answer was it hadn't occurred to her to do that; the daycare needed defending, there was no one else to do it, and she could still beat it with her empty rifle to buy patrol more time to get there.  Teresa won't discuss the other times--"
"Other times?" Dean echoes. "How often does Miss Take It Old School do this?"
"Teresa won't talk about it without alcohol, and a lot of it," he answers.  "After hearing that, Amanda and I decided to wait until we all had time for the inevitable hangover."
"I wonder what she'd do when a Hellhound comes running at her?" Dean muses, not at all pointedly.
"Haruhi promised me that wouldn't happen," he mutters, giving Dean a dirty look. "No one had to teach Rosario to throw herself between danger and people who need protection; she just does it, and that kind of habit is impossible to eradicate, though Teresa apparently did try. She is an exceedingly vulnerable mountain; we must teach the mountain to be less vulnerable, for it will not move.  If that is her greatest strength, it certainly isn't one to be despised.  So yes, Rosario's progress is slow, but it doesn't stop, because she continues to work past tiredness and common sense, sometimes even while covered in paint."
"That's why Haruhi needed the paint," Dean says, enlightened. "I really want to see the pics, by the way."
"They're hilarious," Cas assures him with a grin.  "Rosario's somewhat discouraged by the progress of her classmates compared to her own, but despite that, she still continues to work.  If Amanda is correct about Rosario's skill with knives, Alicia's supplemental instruction with her give her more confidence.  When training is complete, Amanda will have reason to be proud of what she's accomplished with her first class.  Haruhi would be good without her, and with her will be extraordinary, but Rosario will be good because her instructor saw what she wanted to become and worked with her to achieve it." Cas focuses on the knee of his jeans again.  "I think Rosario will be surprised to discover what she's capable of doing when assisted by someone who believes in her."
Dean stares at him for a minute, then shoves forward, catching himself on the armrest and kissing the surprised bow of Cas's mouth.  There's never a bad reason to kiss Cas, but damned if this isn't one of the best ones.  When he draws back for a breath, Cas smiles at him, thumb sliding along Dean's jaw.  
"I can't imagine," Cas whispers, blue eyes warm, "who taught me that."
Before Dean can answer (not with words, obviously), the sharp knock on the door is almost immediately followed by Joe's head and a scowl. "Cas--really, Dean? In the Situation Room?"
"Now you know to wait for permission to come in," Dean retorts, dropping back on the couch.  Running a hand over his face, he closes his eyes at the realization he may actually have made Joe wait a while, because his priorities right now are kind of--Cas.  "Is this important?"
"Kind of, yeah."  Joe gives the couch a suspicious look before focusing on Cas.  "Amanda's about to go pick up our unwanted stray, wants to know if you have any last minute instructions?"
Cas makes a face.  "I suppose, yes.  I should also go speak to Alison at Admin regarding any recording devices they may have in inventory."  Dean nods; recording devices and also relating the 'good enough' plan to Alison. If they're lucky, she may have something better; they're not, so he doesn't even bother with hope.
"Check on Christina's team while you're at it," he says--might as well get that part out of the way--before reluctantly getting up.  Extending a hand to Cas, he ignores Joe rolling his eyes in favor of Cas's smile as he tugs him to his feet and walks him to the door.  Leaning against the doorframe, he grins at them both.  "Have fun.  Be back in time for Micah's perp walk; you're not gonna want to miss it."
After watching them disappear into the next room, he starts to go back inside (interrogators, gotta pick some, fuck his life) when a deliberate movement to his left gets his attention.  Turning, he sees Alicia sitting cross-legged against the far wall and watching him thoughtfully, like it's perfectly normal. This is Alicia; for her, normal is kind of...yeah, no idea.
"Everything okay?" he asks as he starts toward her, then for form's sake, asks, "Were you listening at the door?"
"If I could hear anything, of course," she answers with a frown, tipping her head back.  "But the acoustics are designed to discourage that, I think.  You think they did lawyer meetings with human sacrifice in there?"
"You feel it, too."  Without thinking, he extends a hand, and she takes it and lets him pull her to her feet.  "You need anything?"
"I do," she answers, nodding solemnly, and he sees the Micah notebook tucked under her arm.  "I need to tell you that I lied."
@@@@@@
--Day 157, continued--

Unsurprisingly, Alison has returned to her office at Admin, likely at Teresa's instigation.  Looking at her now, he wishes that he'd been paying closer attention over the last two days.  Unobserved, the deceptive energy Alison displayed earlier is stripped away, the strain of the last week painfully clear.    Despite the open laptop on the desk and several stacks of paper surrounding her, her eyes are fixed in the middle distance, and he suspects that's not because she's engaged in long-distance communication.
Knocking on the open door, he waits for her to look at him before asking, "May I come in?"
The transformation is instantaneous, energy returning with an extra helping of annoyance; he can see why Dean calls her the Executive Secretary of the Apocalypse.  The glasses are very discomfiting, especially when she looks at him over the bent rim.  "Come in, of course."
"I planned to in any case, but thank you for permission," he answers her, closing the door and turning the lock, secure in the knowledge that Christina will redirect anyone who requests Alison's attention unless it's urgent (if it's urgent, Alison will know, in any case).  Leaning over the desk, he turns the laptop so he can screen (inventory), clicks on save, waits to assure it does so, then closes the lid before sitting down.
Alison blinks at it slowly. "I was doing something."
"You have no idea what, however."  Her eyes narrow. "How are you feeling?"
"Wonderful," she answers with syrupy sweetness.  "Rocks are falling in slow motion, everyone's gonna die.  How, who can tell?  That part's still up in the air, but there are a lot of contenders."  The hazel eyes flicker away.  "So--"
"We need cameras," Castiel interrupts.  "Joseph's hand hurts."
"Context: talk with Micah, got it."  She frowns into the middle distance, then nods.  "Walter says we have some that might work; give him about an hour to find them and bring them by...."
"Here is fine."
She frowns, there and then gone.  "Walter says 'can do'. Apparently," she adds with a faint smile, "they're for indoor use only and he couldn't figure out how to make them work on the square.  Uh--okay, a TV in inventory might work so you can watch the feed live: he'll check with Lanak and bring that, too."
"Thank you."  
She nods, eyes fixed on her desk, but he doesn't miss the quick intake of breath. "Cas, look--"
"I did as you requested," he interrupts. "Perhaps I should show you, however." Sliding the his chair closer, he leans across the desk, taking her limp hand and turning it over, lacing their fingers together.  He still has to be careful, of course, but with Alison, only the simplest precautions are necessary to protect her from the infinite mind of an angel, especially with a memory from a mortal perspective; in a matter of seconds, he relates the relevant portion of the meeting after she left and stops before reaching his private conversation with Dean, watching in interest as her expression go from resigned to bewildered to--
"What.  The.  Hell?" she demands as she examines it again; her memory isn't eidetic, but there are benefits to receiving a carefully contained memory from a former angel.  "You...."
"I told them the truth," he answers, settling back in the chair again.  "That is what I was supposed to do, correct?"
She glares at him.  "Here's the story of the evil psychic that very nearly ended humanity's existence but let me tell you also how none of this is relevant because free will?"
"Essentially, yes."
"And tool metaphors," she continues in bafflement.  "Holy shit, you got Alicia and Joe in on it?  What the hell just happened?"
"Alison, I understand the pleasures to be found in assuming the worst of yourself--my experience with dreaming has been traumatically educational on that point--but without a very dramatic change in personality--such as being literally possessed by a demon--you are in no danger of becoming a sadistic psychopath with megalomaniacal tendencies who destroys the world.  Other horrifying possibilities, yes, but that--no."
She stares at him blankly.  "That's supposed to be better?"
"Yes," he answers honestly.  "You didn't see his mind; I did.  Anything you may become--and I do mean anything--is better than that."
She shudders.  "Okay, give you that one."
"It also helps that you don't want to be a monster," he continues, trying and failing to suppress irritation.  "Despite what you may think, otherwise normal people accidentally embracing evil while of sound mind are actually exceedingly rare, and those continuing haplessly upon that path, will they nil they, almost non-existent; actually, I can't think of a single one in all of history."
"Uh--"
"It doesn't happen," he clarifies, in case this isn't as obvious as he feels it should be. "Ever."
"I get it, but--"
'But': there always is one.  "Committing yourself to evil as a career path isn't easy," he starts (again).  Hope springs eternal, after all, and while humans still offer up bodily fluids (Dean) and their minds (Alison) at random to anyone who might ask (or more importantly, when they don't and have no intention of doing so), perhaps he'll have better luck with this. "Don't misunderstand: despite what you may think, evil takes work, that work is generally unpleasant as well as boring unless you have a taste for that kind of thing and you don't, it's very thin of non-minion company--they're generally stupid, in case that's not obvious--and it's not nearly as enjoyable as you might assume; see points one through three.  The only thing that makes it worth it is the eventual goal--conquest, riches, power, a particularly attractive courtesan, concubine, or heiress--and you don't even have one of those.  For that matter, Teresa is both beautiful and powerful, no one has money anymore, and if you want the infected zone, I seriously doubt anyone would care, but Alison, you are no general.  An administrator, yes, but please don't try conquest; it would be embarrassing for us both when I brought you to battle, and you would lose, probably in under ten minutes."
Alison blinks once to show she's listening: excellent.
"To continue: you have no nefarious goals nor do you show any sign of acquiring any that can't be reached by less personally reprehensible--and far less miserable--means.  It's not impossible, but--you and Dean," he interrupts himself.  "What part of this doesn't make sense?  You both carry on as if not carefully watched, you'll abruptly pillage the world in an orgy of unexpected villainy no one could see coming; one, the way you both warn us of it constantly contradicts the 'unexpected' and 'not see coming' and two, what is wrong with you?"
Alison leans back in her chair.  "Long day?"
"Long week," he answers shortly, slumping in his chair.  "Why do you make this so complicated?  It's simple; a five year old manages it without any effort whatsoever."
"Simple but not easy," she retorts.  "How not to be a monster, by Castiel of Chitaqua.  Really helps, by the way, have I mentioned that?"
"That's two thirds--perhaps three quarters of it," he agrees in determined patience. "Nothing happens in a vacuum; the rest is the world and those around you, and they must do their part as well.  The world we have no control over, but your family and friends--those you choose to surround yourself with, who willingly offer their support and you accept it--will do the rest."
Her frown deepens. "I have no idea what that means."
"Perhaps you could consider the possibility that it might be difficult for you to embark on a path of wholesale evil while sharing a bed with Teresa, a house with Manuel, Sudha, and Neeraja, and living a street away from Tony, Claudia, and Dolores.  Unless I mistake them--and I don't--they won't react with resigned horror to your not at all inevitable slide into darkness but will probably knock you out--Dolores will help--until you stop acting like an idiot."   She winces.  "If you like someone and they're about to do something you know is stupid, you try to talk them out of it, but if you love them, you can also punch them in the face."
"Punch them in the face?"
"Yes.  From my observations, none of them would hesitate to do just that if required, and no one wants a broken nose in addition to reproaches from all who care for you.  That would hurt on multiple levels and there's a dearth of competent plastic surgeons in the infected zone if your septum became unfortunately deviated."
Her eyebrows jump.  "Who told you that?  Not the plastic surgeons thing," she says, waving her hand. "I noticed the lack of those myself.  The punching thing."
"One of my first instructors in hunting," he replies. "It feels like it should be a proverb, doesn't it?  I wonder why it's not?"
"Because hunters are crazy," she tells him, and he watches her expression darken.  "Look, Cas--"
"We have a plan."  She stills.  "May I show you?"
Reluctantly, she extends her hand again, fingers icy against his own.  Watching her face, he sees her lips tighten as he shows her the whole, eyes closing tightly as they finish, and letting her go, he sits back again. 
When she opens her eyes, she makes a terrible attempt at a smile.  "You call that a plan?"
"Dean calls it 'good enough'," he explains.  "We're working on something better."
He sees her fingers curl in on themselves on the surface of the desk.  "Cas, it's a nice thought, but the risk--"
"The 'shooting you in the head' option remains on the table," he interrupts, not quite able to conceal his bitterness.  "Forgive me for not being eager to do so."
Shoulders slumping, she braces her elbows on the desk, head dropping into her hands.  "I know, Cas.  I’m sorry."
"It seems my fate to be propositioned to commit murder and the requester apologize for it," he answers evenly.  "If you truly understand why you should apologize, then perhaps it should occur to you that there are some requests you never make of a friend."
"You don't understand--"
"I understand perfectly."  She lifts her head, face naked.  "You don’t want to survive."
Motioning Dean to one of the sleeping bags spread on the floor in her team's room, Alicia locks the door and takes the other one, settling cross-legged and uncannily calm.
He stares at her, trying again to see her holding a gun and pointing it at Cas's cabin; it doesn't work.  He sees her at the kitchen table with Cas in their cabin in the morning, bright and relentlessly cheerful; the scars on her hands when she was flipping that knife on New Year's Eve; in the Situation Room, defending the infiltrators who caused that first attack on Ichabod still carrying the memory of those four kids in isolation she gave mercy; climbing on top of Cas when he was seizing to keep him still so Vera could start the IV and talking herself hoarse like it never occurred to her he could rip her apart by accident, much less on purpose; playing bait and switch with Croats; and the bright smile when she detonated those cars.
He thinks of the way she looked when he ordered her to get up after she fell, when she tried to kick the postern door down, when she gave Andy mercy, when Kat attacked her; when she told him she was at the cabin and when she gave him the script for her own execution; when she sat in the fucking mess in a sea of isolation this morning and pretended to eat.  Chitaqua toast, fucking dryer elf traps, terrifyingly vague plans of ambush practice in Chitaqua involving fucking nets (God, what are her and Cas planning?), and there is no line.  If there was one and you cross it, you can cross back.
Crossing to the other sleeping bag, he sits down, and Alicia taps the notebook in her lap.  "Is this verbatim?"
"Joe transcribed everything," he answers.  "Why?"
She frowns.  "Micah didn't tell you about me."
Implied--or tried to--that she was involved, but he never stated it verbatim.  "No."  Then, because he can't stop himself, "Just think, if you'd kept your mouth shut, I wouldn't have known at all."
"That, yeah," she answer distractedly. "But I mean anything.  Other than that I'm his wife and a liar, probably because it's reflex after this long."
"And he thought I'd believe him."
Something flickers across her face.  "He's a lawyer.  He's used to getting a jury to believe utter bullshit.  I'm not saying you're particularly credulous, but he's a masher, you're a potato, and potatoes are mashed, get what I mean?"  She stops short, looking uncertain. "Also, all people are potatoes, I should have started with that.  Some, Irish potatoes."
"How often did you get high in college?"
"Dropped out after the first semester," she answers promptly. "First time I got high, Cas told me I'd think thoughts and they'd be groovy. I did and they were."  She shakes her head, brown ponytail bobbing.  "Anyway, it's not just that; he didn't even try to get you to ask any of the right questions so he could deploy bullshit in a plausible manner.  Or in this case, the actual truth, which would be new for him, yeah, so maybe he was confused?"
"What were the right questions?" he asks.  "Like how Erica knew your name was Stephanie. Sends her love, by the way."  It wasn't rocket science to work out who Erica was referring to--Joe and Amanda both picked it up--but neither recognized the name, either.  Which means Erica may be the only person Alicia told; that's not just work-buddy friends shit, not at Chitaqua.
"Can't say I miss her." Her expression drifts between anger and regret, like something lost.  "So it worked, huh?"
"What worked?"
"You didn't know my name."  He shakes his head on cue.  "Then Cas and Chuck didn't find anything.  I worked on that ID for a while, though Chitaqua's background check wasn't what I had in mind; never did get to road test it."  Dean starts to ask why, but she shakes her head.  "You'll know what to ask in a minute.  First, Erica was Lisette Martin, only survivor of the Covenington Thanksgiving Day Massacre.  Ring a bell?"
"Her entire family was killed by her boyfriend," he says, nodding and filing away the name.  "He was a Luciferite, yeah, I know."
"I figured you knew," she says.  "After they found her, she was on a psychiatric hold for almost two months: catatonia followed by a psychotic break that included raving about Lucifer pretty much guarantees that."
"And they let her go?"
"Not exactly," she answers.  "She killed two orderlies and seriously injured her psychiatrist when she escaped.  Vanished after that--she wouldn't talk about it, just that she was looking for that cult--then came to Chitaqua, and you know this part."  Kind of, yeah.  "Dean, you can pretend here, but you had no idea what you were dealing with when it came to her. No one did."
It dawns on him that Alicia may be trying to make him feel better about recruiting a psychopath.  "I knew what she was."
"You didn't know shit," she replies.  "She lost her entire family, and I mean everyone: great-grandma and second cousin once removed to three month old niece.  It was a family reunion, and they were close; three hours before he took them downstairs, she and Dave announced their engagement."  She hesitates. "And that they were having a baby."
He wonders if he ever thought, even once, that anything--even tragedy--could be simple.  
"When she woke up--about two week after they got her out of that basement--she had no one and nothing.  And that's also when she found out that she miscarried before they found her.  Her first words after they told her were, 'I'm still down there.'" 
"She never left that basement."
"I could be wrong, but Chitaqua--it was the closest she ever came to leaving it.  With us, it was--her story might have been the worst--God, I hope--but at Chitaqua, we invented a brand new scale to deal, you know?  You didn't have to know what happened to someone to know; like knows like."
He nods.
"Second month of training," Alicia continues.  "We accidentally ended up in the infirmary at the same time--never shall I ever forget to check my bootlaces before going anywhere, ever again--and got to know each other.  We had a lot in common.  More than I thought."
Like knows like.  "Her mass murdering boyfriend used to beat her up, too?"  He doesn't realize what he was going to say until the words are out of his mouth, but he doesn't regret it, even as Alicia's face drains of color.  "Luciferite isn't synonymous with good boyfriend behavior, just saying.  I could see it."
"Ironically," she says slowly, "he was a perfect gentlemen.  It was the one before him.  It wasn't like that with me and Micah."  Then, unexpectedly, "I mean, it was, but there were rules, you know what I mean?  With Micah, I mean.  He had to have a very bad day, he had to have a drink, we had to be in private, I had to have done something--what could change, sure, but it was always something--we had to argue, he had to unexpectedly lose his temper...it wasn't all the time, it wasn't even most of the time, it was one percent, maybe two, three, five, ten at most.  In between, he loved me and I loved him and everything would work out for the best if I just kept trying.  Marriages take work, everyone knows that."
"Do you even believe that bullshit?" he asks, wondering who told her that and if they're dead yet.  They're probably alive and kicking; this world, at least, doesn't even pretend there's such a thing as justice.
"Sure.  I mean, I had to have," she answers reasonably.  "What reasonable person stays with someone who hits them when they don't remember to pick up that cheese that smells like socks that you can't pronounce because its name has no vowels or say something weird to the senior partners?  Hint: they don't, no one does that.  They gotta be getting something out of it, though, and that's kind of all I got.  You gotta know the statistics--okay, maybe you don't, but I do. My therapist had a giant board and everything--and I'm saying...." She shakes her head.  "My reasons were shitty.  They usually are."
Dean clenches his fists unseen in his lap and nods, letting it go.  "You and Erica bonded over shitty SO's, got it."
"Got it," she agrees.  "And the kids I killed." Her eyes focus on some point over his shoulder.  "I was very drunk, though: never meant to tell her about that.  You'd think I'd have learned by now, am I right?"
She'd done it before.  "What happened?"
"Back then," she says in an eerily calm voice, "Croatoan was still this scary story we traded on shift, you know?  I was just an EMT and epidemic was just a word; I didn't know shit." She takes a breath.  "A couple of weeks before, I was getting a check-up, and Leo caught me coming out--my supervisor," she explains.  "Wanted to warn me since I was on leave--they'd had a scare or something--and he told me what Code Green meant these days: Green for Do Not Pass Go and Get Out.  Never did ask how he found out, but he told me to be careful, there'd been some weird shit.  I blew it off, didn't even think about it again until--until I heard it.  Everyone started leaving.  Everyone," she says in a different voice, "but the patients."
"Croat."  She nods, and it hits him.  "It was a baby?"
"The first one," she answers like a punch to the gut. "There were ten infected. Every baby delivered on the day shift, starting at 8:38 AM: the last was born at 3:10 PM."
Last born there because about an hour later, the first manifested in the goddamn nursery: Christ.  "How were they infected?"
"Erythromycin ointment contaminated with Croatoan," she answers calmly.  "When they're first born, Apgar check at one and five minutes, height and weight, and erythromycin for their eyes.  It's an antibiotic to prevent blindness, in case the mother had gonorrhea or chlamydia, standard for vaginal delivery.  She smiled when she did it--the nurse, I mean," she adds in surprise.  "She probably smiled at every mom there when she infected their babies, can you imagine that?  Before they even got to hold them."
It's the sickest thing he's ever heard.  "On purpose."
"Oh yeah," she agrees, a ripple of something dangerous in her voice.  "Andrea Simmons, happiest Luciferite I ever met; her second day on the job, came in bright and early for murder day.  Pretty sure she was a Luciferite, I mean, no way to be sure, but spreading Croat was kind of their thing, you know what I mean?  She was new at the hospital, they hadn't even finished her background check.  State hospital, short-staffed, limited funds, shitty goddamn pay, maybe the computer broke: what can you do?  If they'd done their goddamn jobs before letting her anywhere near the maternity ward, they would have found out she didn't exist; even the nursing license belonged to someone else, and it'd been revoked six months earlier for gross negligence."  She meets his eyes.  "I didn't know for sure, mind you, but I guessed that Green for Do Not Pass Go and Get Out didn't end well for the patients."
"Yeah."  This part, he never needed anyone to tell him, not knowing what happened on the border. He's only surprised anyone was allowed out.  "And you weren't down with that."
"I screamed fire as loud as I could and pulled the alarm at the nurse's station in the maternity ward.  It was an old hospital, and I figured they hadn't gotten around to overriding that on all the doors, so everything unlocked.  Cost-cutting, they were fans, and I knew this hospital to the ground, I worked there enough.  I was right; I managed to grab a couple of the calmer people and tell them what happened and where everyone needed to go on my way."
"No one tried to stop you?"
"Not many left: they did know how to run," she answers, an edge of mockery in her voice.  "Those nurses and doctors, they had orderlies when their patients got grumpy; I once wrestled a guy twice my size onto the ground and got him bandaged up while his wife--probably not entirely unjustifiably, our acquaintance was by necessity limited, but he was a total dick--shot at us both from the front porch of their house.  Domestic violence and attempted homicide, more likely than you think: I got to see statistics in action every day."  She gets a strange expression on her face.  "It was so quiet."
Dean fights not to react.  "Quiet?"
"The hospital.  Weird, right?  I could hear my footsteps all the way up the steps and down the hall, like there was an echo or something. It was like being in a horror movie, you know, the dumb person who has to go see what's behind that door?  I was that dumb person, but me, one, I knew what was behind the door, and two, I went prepared.  I got into the drug cabinet--someone didn't pay attention about closing those before abandoning their patients--and got everything that looked murdery.  Croat's hard to kill after it manifests, am I right?"
"Yeah," he agrees hoarsely and hastily clears his throat.  "Yeah, it is."
"Fentanyl with a potassium chloride chaser, added a lethal dose of cyanide because why not?" she continues dreamily.  "Brought that one with me, glad I did, for did I need it?  I did.  No mistakes: this time, had to get it right first try.  Grabbed a box of syringes and some gloves, I was ready for just about anything.  Moved them from in front of the door first--"
"Who?" he asks before he can stop himself and regrets it when the haze threatens to crack.  The last time she told anyone this story, she was drunk, and like Cas getting high before talking to him about the cabin, he's pretty sure there's a reason for that. 
"Five women: one was just a kid herself, maybe fifteen.  They were still in their gowns, all rucked up--they just left them there, like it didn't matter.  I couldn't just--I couldn't leave them like that, you know?"
He nods and keeps his mouth firmly shut.  
"There was blood everywhere, the coagulation--when you moved them, it made this sound...heard it a hundred times, but every time, brand new."  He nods again, tasting the acid-edge of breakfast (and maybe every meal he's had this week) in the back of his throat.  "When they heard the fire alarm, they went to save their babies.  Of course they did, why didn't I--I should have thought first, bad decision, see what I mean?  I do that."
Jesus Christ: they died right outside the nursery.  "How'd they die?" he asks when the silence goes on a little too long; a glance at Alicia's hands show them locked together in her lap, which makes him wonder if she realized he was watching them earlier when they talked.  
"They were shot in the head."  She looks past him, and he wonders if she's seeing that hospital now.  "I got some sheets, covered them up--and I told them I'd take care of everything.  And I did: I broke the padlock on the nursery doors with my trusty sledgehammer and went inside.  You ever seen--no, I asked you that already, forgot.  Sorry."
"It's fine," he says soothingly, surreptitiously shifting to the edge of the sleeping bag.
"There was one nurse left--they locked her in, I guess.  She was kind in shock but seemed fine otherwise.  Newborns don't have teeth or much in the way of fingernails, you know, but gotta be a little unsettling when a newborn tries to kill you." 
"They were all...."
"Every one of them."  She wets her lips before continuing.  "I told her to leave in a firm yet kind voice--or shouted, who knows, it's been a while, but seriously, girlfriend needed to run far and away before they got back--and closed the door.  Then I...." She licks her lips, meeting his eyes.  "Five boys and four girls: one set of identical twins, two fraternal.  I put on my gloves and took care of them.  Their moms--they would have done it.  They would have loved them enough to not make them live like that for a second longer than they had to.  So I did it for them." Her voice turns thready.  "Then I went to look--I was missing a mom, you see.  I knew she wouldn't have left.  She wasn't hard to find."
"Where was she?" he asks softly, though he's pretty sure he already knows.
"On the floor at the end of the hall," Alicia whispers.  "She'd delivered at 2:45 PM, emergency Caesarean, not a big deal, but she'd lost a lot of blood.  She--she ripped open the stitches trying to get to her kid, bled out right there on the floor.  I took them all to the nursery, so--so they could be with their kids.  Then I left."
Dean shifts closer, less subtly.
"Obviously, I mean," she continues tonelessly.  "Infanticide is very much frowned upon by society, especially when Croat is just a story, epidemic is a word, I was just an EMT, and none of it actually happened.  Still not sure of the events after this, kind of hazy, the infection, I didn't really--anyway, somehow, I ended up in Chitaqua." 
Dean keeps his mouth closed and doesn't say a goddamn thing.
Alison closes her eyes and nods. All at once, she drops the façade she'd taken on his arrival, and this time, Castiel can see not just the exhaustion and pain, but something far worse: the lack of hope.
"When this is over--" Castiel starts.
"It won't ever be over."  Shoving herself to her feet, the chair crashes into the wall behind her. "This is my life, Cas!"  He watches her run her hands through her hair, just missing a forgotten pencil and bringing the entire questionable remaining structure down around her shoulders.  "I know what you said--I'm made to do this, I'll adapt--but you said it yourself; it's too much, too fast, and you don't even know how much more I--"
"I do know."  She wets her lips, fighting hope and losing, and that makes it infinitely harder.  "When you reach your full potential, you'll be the most powerful psychic ever to walk the earth."
For a moment, he wonders if she understood him.  "What?"
"It's not certain, but given how quickly you're progressing...." He trails off, unable to meet the hazel eyes as they fill with dawning horror.  "Manifestation in childhood is usually less than a tenth of a psychic's full potential, though puberty is when the speed of progression increases exponentially.  You, however--if you'd manifested at a hundredth of your potential in childhood, you wouldn't have been sane; a child's brain is far too malleable.  It's likely your latency was protective as well; only a fully adult mind could hope to cope with--"
"I'm not coping with it!" she shouts, hands fisted at her sides.  "Cas, you're not getting this; I can't live like this!  Not for the rest of my life!  Saying it will be better when there's less people just means until I progress again and I can start hearing the entire goddamn state!  Then you'll tell me about how I'll get better at shielding.   And then it jumps again and--Cas, I'm in an arms race with my own goddamn mind! I can't do this!  I don't want to!"  
Hands shaking, she grabs her chair, dragging it back and sitting down like falling into a hole that she hopes she won't ever have to leave.
"When it was just Ichabod...." She blows out a breath.  "It was a million times better after you showed me how to shield, yeah, but never good.  It was work--every day, every night--to keep from hearing everything.  I was always a little tired and always trying not to listen and always a little distracted, and since the last level up, it's--" She cuts herself off, staring at the desk.  "I know nothing is easy, Cas, I do, and everyone's got a shit part of their lives, but the shit part is living my life.  I don't even know for sure how much of me is me anymore and how much is other people when I slip, and I slip all the time!"
He nods.
"Have you...have you ever been tired?" she asks, looking at him earnestly.  "So tired that--that you didn't care about anything?" He nods again.  "Doing this--reading people's minds all the time--you did it as an angel, I get it, and maybe it's different then--"
"Very different," he agrees.  "Human minds are alien to us; they were open to us at all times, of course, but different. They could not intrude upon us; they were separate."
She nods tiredly.  "That sounds about right."
"Privacy of the mind that humans enjoy is equally alien to an angel, however," he continues.  "From the moment of my Creation until I Fell, I had no concept of my thoughts belonging to me alone.  I was but a foot soldier in the Host, and all of my Brothers were entitled to my mind, to read what I thought and examine all that I did at their leisure; I had no context for existence where that wasn't a given."
Alison nods slowly.  
"For over two years on earth before I Fell, I was hunted by my Brothers, and I learned methods of hiding myself from them.  They were still there, but between us was a barrier I created for Dean's safety and my own; it was like--a wall, behind which existed a roar that never stopped.  It was--in a sense--unnatural; I had no right to deny them what was theirs, to pretend to claim it as my own."
She makes a face.  "And when you Fell?"
"The silence was horrifying," he answers honestly.  "But worse was the absence.  Even when I didn't let them hear me, I could feel them there; now the space that was theirs was unoccupied.  Imagine an enormous room, a room so vast you cannot see the walls.  It was once filled entirely; now, it's empty."
"Oh God," she whispers, reaching across the desk to touch his hand, fingers warm as they lace through his and squeeze.  "I'm sorry."
He squeezes her hand in return and pauses, startled to realize the warmth isn't entirely physical; it's reassurance, comfort, regret, support, woven together inexpertly but with transparent honesty.  Looking at her, he spares a moment to wonder how someone who can't help but try to ease pain even in the midst of her own would believe, for even a moment, that she would willingly become a monster.  Or would ever choose to remain one if she did.
"I'm not."  He spoke truly when he told Dean that, but he didn't realize at some point, even the memory of longing became only that: a memory.   "Now, all that is within that room is my own; what I think, I feel, I decide--it's mine alone, it's me.  The room is mine, and so is all within it.  No one else has any right to it.  It's not empty; I fill it very well." 
Meeting her eyes, he shows her the empty room as it was then: a bare expanse of frozen white absence, vast beyond measure.  He walked endlessly in search of its end and never found it; he might have walked forever there, but there was too much to do. He had to learn to understand this foreign thing, his not-quite human body: how to exist within it; to use it; to keep it living and healthy. He had to learn the sharp limits of corporeal existence, to navigate existence on a single plane, on a single world, in a single time.  There was Dean always, first and only and all things he had ever known; there was the camp and those he must teach for him; there were people he must understand for him; there was a world he must save for him--and then there were those he must teach, because they needed him; people he must understand, because they were themselves; a world he couldn't save, that was already over, and they were only marking time until the end.
Then it was over....but not quite. They weren't done yet.
Without warning, more comes: patrol meetings in the morning, coffee with Alicia, sparring with Amanda and Mark, inspecting the cabins and later, the mess and imagining a better one (one with ranges and ovens that work),  stringing lights and Dean stubbornly perched on that pole....Dean on the porch at their cabin while they shared an evening beer, at the kitchen table making him coffee for the first time, in their living room still worried about what Castiel did to himself that night Kansas City; sleep restless as the fever burned through him and relaxing at a touch; arguing with Vera and laughing with Joseph and teaching him how to win at poker; on their range shooting point-blank until his hand was too cramped to hold the gun and stalking Jeffrey and digging the foundation for the new mess in Chitaqua--the room should be full with all of that, he thinks uncertainly, pulling away.  Yet it's not.
"It's never going to be full, Cas; it's not a room."  Alison looks inexplicably satisfied.  "No wonder you can't see it anymore.  I was wondering what you meant when you said that.  Makes sense now, thanks."
Castiel closes his hand around the fading warmth from her touch.  "See what?"
"Infinity," she answers in surprise.  "Too much to do filling it up."
He opens his mouth to correct her, but for some reason, the words refuse to form.
"Huh." She extends her hand again, snapping her fingers impatiently.  "Any time now."
Reluctantly, he takes it, and she unfolds Ichabod before him as it is now.  Its almost blinding; clusters of lights like stars, bright enough to light the universe and to spare.  Constellations sketched in human brilliance across an infinite sky; he almost envies her ability to see this.
"Anytime you want," she promises, then her fingers tighten, and the focus narrows, like entering the heart of a star at the speed of light, as close and as familiar as his own skin....
He stills, staring at her across a desk and infinite space.  "It's not a room."
"Know thyself," she whispers, laughter in her voice as she pulls them back out, and he stares into the infinite brightness of that single light: his own.  "Looks like you have too much to do to stare into infinity and contemplate amoebas these days."  Letting go, she sits back and smiles.  "You didn't know?"
He shakes his head, giving himself a moment to absorb the impossible (or rather, set it aside because that will very likely take time, perhaps years).  "Thank you," he says; it's inadequate (much like water is slightly damp), but it will have to do for now. 
"Anytime," she answers, but her smile falters; 'anytime' could, if she has her way, be measured in days, perhaps hours.  "Cas, look--"
"I understand," he tells her.  "To have my mind violated, to risk drowning beneath the thoughts of others, unable to find my own, to have them taken again--" He cuts himself off, startled by his own horror and forces himself to set that aside, too  "I'm not sure I wouldn't want to choose death."
"You'd want to," she says quietly. "But you wouldn't do it."
He considers that carefully.  "No.  I wouldn't.  Not if I had any other choice."
"Because of Dean."
"Yes, of course.  But for myself as well," he admits.  "Dean is alive.  To have him, so must I be."
She looks away.  "Teresa. That's where this is going, right?  You think I’m being selfish, not thinking about her--"
"That is what you heard?" he interrupts in exasperation.  "I apologize; my intentions were to display empathy and understanding.  I won't make that mistake again."
Alison starts to answer, then sighs. "Okay, sorry. I just--"
"You're tired," he says.  "And you're terrified.  In your position, I would be as well.  Now that we've established that, may I continue?"
"Sure," she answers dully. "What were we talking about?"
"What is to be done," he says.  "Losing your abilities permanently, I assume, would be the ideal solution, am I correct?"  She nods tiredly.  "Which isn't possible."
She nods shortly.
"So best case scenario is out of the question," he continues.  "However, would you consider 'good enough' as an option?  With the guarantee of improvement over time?"
Alison's gaze sharpens.  "What does that mean?"
"I've told you about my personal experience with psychics," he says.  "One I knew personally, Pamela; the other, Missouri, was a friend of Dean's.  They had much in common: both manifested in childhood, both were very powerful, but they had one other thing that they share with no other psychic in history.  Except you."
"What?"
"All of you," he answers deliberately, "were born in the twentieth century.  Specifically, after nineteen forty-six."
He lets the silence stretch until she looks ready to talk again.  "And then Micah showed up." She nods.  "How'd he find you?"
She laughs, jagged and painful.  "Christ, Dean, wrong question. How the fuck did I ever believe, even for a minute, that he wouldn't?  Two weeks later, there is he, like my own private what the fuck.  I really did think about telling him to fuck himself--my therapist was very adamant about rejecting any attempts at reconciliation--but problem: Stephanie was very much wanted for questioning in regard to murder."
"He was going to turn you in?"
"Himself?  No, he loved me," she answers.  "But he was really worried you might.  After all, he wanted to believe me, but there was no proof.  And that's what he would have tell you if you asked, he couldn't lie.  Probably without the 'wanted to believe', or maybe like, with an asterisk to express 'totally don't believe her', what do you think?"
That son of a bitch.  "I would've believed you," he says, and believes--because he's got to--that the other Dean would have, too.
"Good to know," she says with a flicker of irony. "But at the time, you might say I had trust issues.  I couldn't even get a restraining order; you don't get those just because you're clumsy and have no sense of balance and fall down the stairs when your husband had a bad day, was tired, was drinking, unexpectedly lost his temper, and I...not sure, but I did do something, what, who can tell?  My parents didn't understand why I'd lie about such a great guy from such a nice family, relationships have their ups and downs, and marriage is commitment you don't just quit at the first little snag, grow up, and maybe if you'd just have a baby that would help--" She sucks in a breath, settling inside herself again.  "Dad threw a plate, once, and Mom told me how he brought her flowers and it was fine: totally comparable, see what I mean?  My friends.…" She wrinkles her nose.  "Didn't have a lot of those. Most were married to other partners, and he was sleeping with at least two of them."
He has no idea why that does it, but it does. "He was fucking your friends?"
Alicia blinks, face losing a little of that painful tightness. "Yeah, and Tiffy's husband still voted him in as partner.  Crazy, right?"
"Yeah," he agrees helplessly.  "Crazy."
"You're probably asking yourself, why I put up with it, didn't just kick him to the curb--everyone does, even me, but like I said, bad reasons, they're my thing--"
"I'm not." Alicia's mouth shuts mid-word, and he clears his throat again to get rid of the rasp; seriously, that shit's gotta stop.  "No one has the right to ask you that question."
Her lips tighten.  "You feel sorry for me, don't you?"
"I'm not a demon or a sociopath," he retorts. "So yeah, I do.  But I'll pretend I don't, that work for you?" There's something really satisfying about throwing insanely smart people off their game.  Cas is getting better at hiding it, but Alicia obviously hasn't had enough practice.  "Well?"
"Sure," she answers after a beat.  
"Awesome, so let's skip to the part where fuck knows what you'll try to convince me happened," he says before she gets back on script: she and Cas, they're good at this. "Let me start.  Erica was your team leader and your friend." Somehow, he manages not to spit when he says 'friend', which is a goddamn miracle.  "I bet that made it hard for Micah to unexpectedly lose his temper when you weren't around much to experience it.  And when you were home, Erica'd stop by to hang out, just making him miserable; no wonder he didn't like her."  
"It's almost like you were there."
Dean just stops himself from reacting.  "As your team leader, she'd also know about any injuries you'd get on patrol or in training, so any others--she'd wonder about those, right?  Probably told him just that and that she'd be checking, stop me if I'm wrong, though come on, we both know I'm not."
"Yeah, she did." Her mouth quirks reluctantly.  "God, he hated her; picking me instead of him for her team, showing up all the time--"
"You weren't invisible."
"Yeah." Alicia's mouth trembles as she nods. "So--you know this part.  When Erica asked me to--help--I said yes."
"No you didn't." 
Alicia's expression flickers, there and gone.  "I was there that night.  Obviously, I said yes."
"Not the first time.  Okay, here's the thing," he says.  "About two weeks before that night, you were injured on duty and surprise, out of everyone in Chitaqua, Erica replaces you with your asshole husband, who around the same time--maybe the same day, who knows?--Erica took to the Crossroads to make a deal.  My question is, the first time she asked you, did she try and sweeten the deal by promising Micah would take the fall for Cas and Vera's death? I never did work out how the hell she was going to explain what happened to them, but Micah as the fall guy, with a horrified girlfriend to confirm everything?  I would have bought it."
"No, she didn't--" Alicia shuts her mouth, blue eyes focusing on him warily.  "What are you doing?"
"Make a deal with you," he says.  "I'll believe you--whatever you come up with to explain a craps-with-Cas-level series of coincidences--if you tell me why, even now, you're protecting them?"
"I'm not!" she bursts out. "Why would I--"
"That's what I want to know.  Look at me," he snaps when she looks away, waiting until she meets his eyes.  "Tell me I'm wrong.  Tell me--"
"It was my choice," she interrupts.  "At the end of the day, it's the person who pulled the trigger who made that decision, no one else."
"No choice is made in a vacuum," he counters.  "Who put the gun in your hand, Alicia?  Why did you pick it up in the first place?  What would happen to you if you didn't?"
"Nothing!" She shuts her eyes, shoulders slumping. "Nothing I couldn't handle."
"What did she do to you when you said no?" he asks quietly.  "Was it an accident?  You were definitely injured, come on; I doubt Erica had the balls to lie to my face when it was something I could check for myself."
She snorts softly. "Yeah, that would have been nice, someone--" She cuts herself off.  "It was an accident."
"The kind of accident that happens on patrol if you piss the team leaders off?"
"Those kind of accidents didn't have survivors."  She makes a face.  "I don't remember it.  The accident, I mean."
"What do you remember?"
"It'd been raining most of the previous week," she starts, voice changing, and he wonders how often she's gone over this in her own mind before today.  "Erica told us that a nest of vampires had been reported in the area--though gotta tell you, they could definitely do better than an assumed cave in the middle of the woods.  It was muddy, the ground, and I may have--I must have stepped wrong.  I woke up in the infirmary banged up with a concussion; Darryl told me that I went down a hill and hit every rock that existed.  It--I could be clumsy--" 
"Yeah, cheerleaders are known for that," he agrees, and this time, she just looks at him.  "I get it, it's reflex.  Make a deal with you: pretend that you know I'll believe whatever you say from here on out and tell me what really happened."
She tries to smile. "And you will...?"
"Believe you," he answers, and her smile vanishes.  "Whatever you say."
She leans back against the wall, expression closed, and Dean waits, trying to be patient.  If he could do it for her, he would, but this is as far as he can get on his own on guesswork.
"I don't know if it was an accident," she says abruptly.  "In the weirdest of all possible worlds, it might--might have happened like they told me."
Dean lets out a breath: okay.  "You're an EMT.  Tell me your assessment of the patient."
"Definitely went down a hill," she answers, eyes distant.  "She was unconscious before she went down; if she'd been conscious, she wouldn't have been relaxed and the injuries would have been much worse. And it was weird, because there was one place that was just fine.  You know what you do when you fall, first thing?  It's instinctive."
He glances down at her hands.  "Your hands.  No scratches."
"My right knuckles were a little swollen, though," she says, her right hand flexing in her lap.  "Later, I found out Felix had a black eye.  Weird, am I right?  Could happen."
"How long did you tell yourself that?"
"I was going to ask Erica next time I saw her," she answers.  "But after Micah unexpectedly lost his temper three times in three days while I was stuck at home, being unfit for duty and everything, I got the impression she wasn't interested in my questions before I changed my answer to hers."
It dawns on him there might have been another reason that Micah went willingly to the Crossroads.  "That's how she got him," he says softly.  "He didn't deal because there was a gun to his head.  He dealt so she'd put down the one she'd been holding on him since she met you.  He gets your place on her team, and you all to himself again, no questions asked ever again."
"We were friends," Alicia says slowly, but underneath the calm ripples something that makes the hair rise on the back of his neck.  "She was my team leader. She hated Micah, she understood--she understood me, and she promised to help." The blue eyes flicker to his, and he just stops himself from flinching at the raw anger, over two years old and still as fresh as it was two and a half years ago.  "Then she set him on me like a goddamn attack dog when I said no."
He'd guessed that much, but hearing it is a whole other story.  '"And Darryl--"
"Darryl confirmed I was medically unfit for duty, though for how long, who could say?  Concussions are tricky things.  Talk about foreshadowing in real life...."
"He knew, too."  Darryl, Erica, her entire goddamn team, the other team leaders, maybe some others involved: to the rest, she was invisible. 
"Yeah."  She visibly braces herself.  "So you're probably wondering why I didn't--"
"Tell someone?" he bursts out incredulously.  "Jesus Christ, do I look that stupid? Who?"
Her eyes widen before all at once, she starts to laugh.  Covering her mouth doesn't seem to help and without thinking, he moves to sit beside her.  As carefully as he can, he eases an arm around her shoulders, feeling her shake like she just might shatter as she slumps against him. He thinks it may be relief.
"I didn't even believe it myself; new place, new time, and it was happening again," she says finally, barely a whisper.  "My best friend, my husband, and my fucking doctor couldn't be lying, am I right?  Darryl said--probably with a straight face, he was stoned a lot--that I should just stay home and let Micah watch over me."  She chokes back another laugh.  "I wonder what was on that medical report.  Never saw it, but maybe Micah just told him his skillsets and to extrapolate."  
"For two weeks," he says out loud, just to hear it: two weeks in the middle of Chitaqua, she was being beaten by her husband, and no one knew but the people who made it happen. No visitors: to everyone else, she was invisible.
"Thirteen days."  She takes a shuddering breath.  "No idea how long she planned to keep trying, but then Felix was injured--legitimately--Debra went out with them and got herself killed, and Vera went after you."
"And Erica decided no more waiting."
"She came to talk to me the night before.  God," she whispers, "the look on her face when she saw me--she felt guilty, you believe that?  Probably not, I wouldn't have if I hadn't seen it.  She wasn't a sociopath, Dean; she fucking wished.  She felt terrible--not as bad as I felt, but I don't think anyone could--and.... And she told me this was my last chance and then she told me a story.  About when she watched you interrogate a demon."  Over the roar in his ears, he hears Alicia say, "She was trying to scare me, I get that, but she didn't need to try that hard; being in that room with her was all it took." She tilts her head up to look at him.  "You didn't know what she was, Dean.  I didn't know, not until that night, listening to her describe torturing a demon like a how-to guide and realizing how much she was looking forward to doing it herself."
"Yeah."  He never thought of that.  In retrospect, he wonders how the fuck he could have missed it.
"Then she told me that someone had to take the fall for Cas and Vera--that's when I found out she was a target, too--and it was gonna be me and Micah or just Micah, my choice.  So you were right about that, good call.  How you'd react when you found Cas's body was up in the air, of course, but she didn't think I'd rate higher than a demon.  Especially with that history of baby killing; she showed me the warrant for my arrest and the police report, Micah's statement, the coroners' report," her voice breaks on a gasp, and he tightens his arm.  "All the details," she whispers.  "I didn't even remember most of it, isn't that weird?  Wonder what that cost Chitaqua: border guards aren't cheap."  She looks away.  "I said yes.  Obviously.  Talk about an offer you can't refuse: I don't die horribly and just as importantly right then, Micah definitely would."
He nods, numb. "Can't blame you."  
"Dean, I--" She pulls away enough to face him, and to his horror, she looks guilty.  "I didn't believe that you'd--I didn't, Dean, you gotta believe that.  I just--it was a bad time.  I'm sor--"
"You were tired and you were scared," he interrupts; if he hears her apologize for believing a fundamental truth about Dean Winchester, he isn't sure what will happen.  "Then you were terrified and there was no way out.  Micah spent two weeks unexpectedly losing his temper with you.  Cas was gonna die either way, and you...." He clears his throat. "You didn't want to be tortured to death. I get it."
"I wasn't into the 'bullet to the head' thing, either, but Erica, see 'overkill'," she says.  "She begged me to say yes." She presses her lips together, shaking her head. "There were other things I could have tried. I could have killed myself, and I did think about it--"
"Jesus, Alicia."
"--but I still chose to do it."  She looks up at him.  "I had two weeks, Dean; I should have gone to someone--you, if I had to, and even if you didn't believe me, at least I'd have tried.  I should have said no and spit in her face--but I didn't.  I knew it was wrong--like, in the 'nothing can make this okay' way, but....I didn't care. I just wanted it to stop.  I picked up my gun, went where I was told, and--when it was over, I realized I was wrong; I did care.  Just too late for it to matter.  Three days later, Erica showed up because I was late for local patrol, like nothing happened.  And I realized I was wrong about that, too; it wasn't over, and it never would be.  I still had to live with it.
"You wanted reasons, but that doesn't make them good ones.  You pick up the gun, you take aim, and you fire: I said yes three times.  No one held a gun to my head to do it."
The thing is, another life, he would have bought that; now, he knows just how many kinds of guns there are, and that the worst shots are the ones you survive.
Alison waits, then finally, grudgingly, "Get on with it."
"In 1836, Michael Faraday--one of the foremost minds in the study of electricity and electromagnetism--performed an experiment called 'the ice pail experiment'," he answers. "It was in relation to the examination of electromagnetic fields in the very new and exciting field of electricity.  In 1920, ninety years later, the United States passed the Federal Power Act, which coordinated the development of hydroelectric power throughout the United States; by the end of World War II, most homes in this country were wired for electricity."
Alison's expression says she isn't going to pretend to be interested much longer.
"The availability of electricity in the private homes of the average citizen is in itself miraculous--you truly have no idea, it's only exceeded by the invention of the flush toilet, truly a wonder of the world--but it also made possible something entirely new in all of history," he continues.  "Until I can discover if Missouri's house is still standing, I can't be sure of how it was accomplished, but I'm certain that she and Pamela both discovered something no other psychic in history had the ability to do--live on a remote mountain free of other minds within their own homes."  Alison's eyes narrow.  "They could--for a short time--lose the use of their abilities."
Alison straightens.  "What?"
"Michael Faraday's experiment was a demonstration of the principles that govern electromagnetism," he continues.  "It is also the basis of the creation of the Faraday cage. Effectively, using a mesh of conductive materials,  it shields what is within from electromagnetic and electrostatic fields without, and vice-versus.  Within that space, you would be unable to sense anyone outside of it as well as the reverse."
"Psychic powers are electricity?" Alison asks blankly, and yes, that.  Human curiosity can be very inconvenient.
"For the purposes of this conversation," Castiel answers carefully, "and only this conversation, why not?"
"That's...was that supposed to be an answer?"
"It's more that you're asking the wrong question, so who knows?" he explains.  "The right question won't be asked for roughly seven hundred years, and possibly two thousand more will pass before a partial answer is available that is also somewhat right.  The Apocalypse has much to answer for when it comes to unconscionable delay of the progress of the sciences."  
"I'm guessing," she says, "the answer requires watching several channels as well.  Using the infinite cable TV method of explanation."
"All the channels," he tells her regretfully.  "Suffice to say, the underlying principles that govern physics as they exist in this universe state that this should work.  The reason I know they do is because of those two psychics."
"Missouri and Pamela," she says, nodding.
"Yes.  Both were telepathic--both active and passive, send and receive, and read-write, as you are, though you're far stronger.  Missouri had both second sight and far stronger clairvoyance, though hers was more general, than either you or Pamela, while Pamela could view without harm a small portion of the infinite dimensions of infinity--though not more than that--and I think had the potential for necromancy, though--"
"Necromancy?" she asks in alarm. "That's real?"
"Potential," he assures her.  "And yes.  In any case: they were both very strong, unusually so, but also functional, which as I have said, is rather rare.  They also used their abilities regularly, consistently, and without undue stress, and it must be said, were sane."
"Right," Alison says, nodding earnestly to show she doesn't trust his judgement on 'sanity'.
"I didn't think about it at the time," he continues, annoyed all over how much he missed during his time with Dean on earth after his resurrection until he Fell: teleportation, infinite knowledge, and Dean as a reference on human behavior, and what did he do with it?  Traumatized innocent sex workers, learned about garage sales, and didn't smite Zachariah on spec.  He was an idiot.  "I should have; it's very rare psychics live and work and interact with the world as easily as they did, much less regularly use their abilities in a professional capacity without some degradation in mental health.  I suspect that both discovered--probably by accident--that there were places their abilities were dulled or even null.  Faraday cages are ridiculously common, but size and quality would be factors; they'd need to have tried to use their abilities while inside a place that happened to be lined with a conductive material on all sides. A closed bank vault, for example, or an industrial walk-in refrigerator if they shut the door.  It's more likely, however, that they first discovered this in an elevator."
"An elevator?" Alison says incredulously.  "That's it?"
"They would have noticed a reduction in background noise as well as experienced difficulty in reading anyone outside it, though how much would depend on the quality of the elevator," he answers.  "They were both very strong, however; anything that could do that would be a source of interest.  They were highly intelligent as well as motivated; it wouldn't have taken either of them very long to discover what caused it and to discover a way to use it."
"Missouri's house," she says, nodding.  "You think it was a Faraday cage?"
"Probably at most a few rooms," he answers.  "I would guess the bedroom, a closet, and perhaps the bathroom; who wouldn't desire privacy when forced to commit unspeakable acts of elimination?  Missouri's house had two floors, so it's probable she also had one on the ground floor for easy access in case she needed to rest between clients."
"Why only a few rooms and not the whole house?"
"For one, both worked regularly with hunters as consultants, so they'd want to be able to sense things occurring nearby without leaving their home and its protective salt lines." Alison nods, understanding.  "Also, both ran very profitable businesses in psychic readings, séances, fortune-telling, and various other activities, and they worked from home as well.  Considering the price of leasing commercial space...." He shakes his head.  "A wise decision.  The prices are ridiculous, and working from home has many tax benefits, in case you're curious."
Alison stares at him. "And you've--dealt with that?"
"Charles Emerson Winchester III's business manager and accountant explained it," he explains and Alison's face lights up; she, at least, recognizes the reference. "Apparently, my commercial holdings have required a fifty-nine percent increase in price per square foot from three years ago, though I ordered that residential leasing rates remain locked into perpetuity.  I think the leasing agency may be overcharging the tenants on the commercial properties: I should find someone who knows how to check for that."  He realizes Alison's still staring at him. "What?"
"You're second on the FBI Most Wanted," she says, "and you have...real estate?"
"It's perfectly legal," he assures her.  "Daphne incorporated a shell company for me--whatever that is--in the Virgin Islands, which now holds all my assets, including what I must admit is a truly impressive stock portfolio.  Though it did help to be able to regularly verify my hunches with a glimpse into the future, especially with futures.  Under a name other than that I used during my career as a stockbroker, of course; I understand that this is common when creating off-shore accounts, for some reason." 
She rests her chin on her hand.  "Stocks I get, but why the real estate?"
Yes, that.  "The apartment I was living in while I was in New York was being converted to private residences and I hadn't yet completed the mission.  I didn't want to move, so...."
"You bought your apartment." 
"The building," he says reluctantly, and Alison's mouth drops open.  "It was a very nice building and had a great deal of historical value; it was an example of something called a 'brownstone'--or 'flagstone', perhaps?  I'm certain, however, that this was part of a major revolution in architectural design and shouldn't be lost to posterity.  You may not be aware of this, it's also a superlative investment when one is focused on the long term." Alison's eyebrows inch upward.  "Also, a safe base in New York City would be extremely useful to our plans. Honestly, acquiring a legally owned dwelling with paid utilities in every major city was only practical.  Sometimes, you want to have an identity with established residency and safe houses with beds that don't smell of blood, myrrh, and wet dog.  And working electricity, which suffice to say was less a given than you might think when regrouping from evil."
Alison eyebrows reach maximum height.  "Okay, now the real reason."
"Have you ever heard of a concept known as 'rent-controlled'?" Alison bites her lip, nodding. "The residents were elderly, and after discussing the situation with Daphne, she thought it would be--less complicated--to simply purchase the building myself so nothing would change."  
"That's what I thought," she says after a moment, sounding inexplicably strangled as her cheeks gain color.  "So everything worked out?"
"Everyone was very pleased," he answers, encouraged by her interest.  "I received baskets of homemade baked goods for several weeks, and Mrs. Sheppard, Mrs. Rodriguez, and Mrs. Kowalski were determined to have me meet their unmarried daughters at the next opportunity.  Mrs. Panson introduced me to her unmarried son, Jamal, an architect with a bright future in post-modernism who also had a secondary skill in interior design and remodeled my residence. I wish I'd appreciated food then," he muses.  "I suspect they were delicious."
"And the women?" she asks.  "And Jamal?"
"I have no idea if they were delicious," he says, not without regret, and Alison's cheeks grow pinker still.  "Nor would I ever describe any person with whom I had sexual relations thus, for that is an excellent way to learn what 'cut off' means, as more than one person learned in Chitaqua. Some," he adds in distant horror, "didn't even have working showers."
Alison bursts into laugher, burying her face in her arms on the desk.  Biting back a smile, Castiel waits for her to recover, and when she lifts her head, he's pleased to see some of the tiredness has receded.
"Does Daphne--who was Daphne again?"
"My lawyer."  
Briefly, Alison looks as if she might need another pause, but after taking a deep breath, she settles again (though much pinker). "Right, of course.  So does she know...I'm not sure what goes here," she confesses.  "Anything about you?"
"She knows I'm off the grid for the foreseeable future due to an interest in the exciting field of alpaca husbandry, currently located in rural Greece." Alison makes a sound like a squeezed kitten.  "I'm eccentric, you see, which is the word for people who are both crazy and very wealthy, or so I was told."
"That sounds right," she says, hazel eyes sharp as they study him for a long moment. "I'm remembering that talk about you discovering the meaning of humor."
"I've been told it’s the best medicine."  He considers for a moment.  "No one can think clearly when they're afraid or in pain; this much of the human condition I've learned intimately.  I would not offer you false hope, but--in your position I'd tell me to take my clever ideas and fuck myself with them. I need you to believe what I'm telling you, because it's true. We can do this."
Alison's expression doesn't change, then abruptly, she says, "Missouri and Pamela--they weren't crazy and ran businesses. Lived in towns.  Hung out with people and weren't crazy, that's what you're telling me?"
"Yes.  They also had very active social and personal lives," he confirms, watching her carefully.  "They were extraordinary, as you are, but their gifts were the least of what made them what they were; they could simply be people as well.  They were able to have normal lives, and you can have that as well."
"This Faraday cage--when I'm in it, I won't hear anyone?"
"The first version will only reduce the noise," he says honestly, but for some reason, that makes her relax.  "Eliminating it entirely will take more time; we'll need to find the right materials and adjust it to you specifically, and every time your abilities increase, we'll need to adjust it again.  It's not a single solution; it will be a work in progress, perhaps one that will continue all your life.  I know that doesn't sound--"
"It sounds real," she interrupts, and he sees tears hovering in her eyes. "It sounds like something we could do.  So go back: initial version, tell me the results, use numbers.  Five, ten percent, maybe fifteen?  I can--I can really use that."
"You will experience, at minimum, a fifty percent drop in noise."
Alison's mouth drops open before she covers it, eyes wide.  "Fifty?"  
"Using the most easily accessible materials and the crudest and most quickly constructed version, yes, which is first on the list.  However, what we need for the long term is something that can be designed and installed permanently--your bedroom, the hall bathroom--in fact, that half of the first floor of your building, depending if we can get the original floorplan of your building.  Initially, however, with the very first, if you accept Teresa's assistance without argument, you will be able to drop your shields entirely and rest with only minimal interruption for at least six hours and if I'm in Ichabod, I may be able to assist and extend that, though I'm not sure how long."
Alison lets out a breath, closing her eyes.  "I would really...really like that."
"This will help with your instruction as well."  She opens her eyes, looking interested.  "You are tired, and while your progress is excellent, it's also a source of additional stress with all you have to do to control your abilities.  Your fear is also a problem--not that I blame you--and this will assist with that as well."  Now comes the difficult part.  "The problem is--"
"How to get one of those yesterday?"  
"No, though that's also a problem for more than time-related reasons," he says.  "I can't build one myself--theory isn't the same as knowing how to do something--and this can't be as simple as the suits worn by people who work on power lines."
"I can get a suit?" Alison exclaims.
He feels as if she's missing the point.  "Yes, but--and please accept this as a given--even if there were any in Ichabod--and there aren't or Tony and his teams would be using them and not the substandard replacements they created to work with massive amounts of electricity--it won't help you.  As--for the purposes of this conversation right now only--your abilities are not electricity anymore."
"Light is a wave," she intones solemnly, "and a particle."
Sometimes, yes.  "Given this: we need someone who knows electric engineering or at least can learn very quickly the technical aspects of how to build the room."
"Walter," she says, nodding.  "God, he's gonna love this, and Tony will love me for giving him a project. And I don't go crazy: everything's coming up Alison."
He smiles at her.  "So sayeth Millhouse."
"Simpsons fan," she says in satisfaction. "I knew it."
"To return to a much less enjoyable topic," he says regretfully.  "If Missouri's house is still standing, that might give us guidance on the design aspects, but that still requires some minimal knowledge of one, how to build things, and two, how to make the thing built a Faraday cage specific to you, one that can be regularly upgraded without requiring major construction on a regular basis.  The correct materials must be found, a location chosen, the room has to be designed, built, and tested, it must be placed somewhere you would normally spend time, and no one--except you, me, Teresa, and Dean--can know about it or even guess what it is, why it's there, or even that it exists."
Alison checks her nod. "What?"
After what feels like days, he realizes he's been quiet too long, but he can't bring himself to care.  All he feels is tired: more than he was after running miles outside the Ichabod's walls, even more than right after he woke up from that goddamn fever.  He doesn't think he's ever been this tired in his life.
"Why did you come to the two month thing after the second class was done?"
Startled, she looks at him.
"Thought that would be the last place you'd go," he explains, not sure why he's asking, but at least it breaks the silence. "Get away from Micah now that you and Erica weren't hanging out?"
"No--I mean, yeah, but that's not why."  She slumps back against the wall.  "I was just going to watch, but I needed the practice.  It wasn't like it'd make a difference if I worked out or not; not like anyone would notice.  I mean," she says quickly, "so many people from the first class, things going on, just--"
"I know what you mean."  Dean grew up learning how to hide in plain sight, he's good at it, but those first weeks after he arrived in Chitaqua taught him what it really meant to be invisible.  Alicia didn't even need sigils tattooed on her to be stuck there: the only people who even knew or cared she existed were....yeah.
"I hated them," she says in a sudden rush, like she's confessing to something worse than murder.
When he looks at her, she's staring at the floor.  "Uh, yeah," he agrees, wondering if he's supposed to reassure her that's okay or something.  He can do that.  "I mean, Erica tried to kill you and Micah--"
"Not them," she interrupts, then wrinkles her nose.  "I mean, not just them.  The second class."  She peers up at him warily when he doesn't respond.  "You--aren't as horrified as I expected."
"I can try," he offers.  "Can't promise to be convincing, though.  All of them?"
"All of them," she agrees, making herself comfortable.  "I can even tell you why on an individual as well as collective basis."
He nods; why not?  "Go for it."
"Amanda, for being good at everything and I mean everything," she starts with the obvious gimme.   "She walked by, people noticed and were justifiably terrified; she was on the field, everyone stopped to watch, or hide if you were the enemy, of course."
"Of course," he agrees, wondering where that quiver in his voice is coming from.
"Like, how do you hate someone just for being themselves?" she continues resentfully.  "And being hot the whole time, that's bullshit.  And James--God, I hated him. He'd make terrible jokes, but everyone thought he was hysterical--why?  He always laughed before he could finish the punchline!"
Dean flashes back to that day he came home to his living room filled with stoned people and the way Cas looked at James.  "I always hated guys like that."
"Lena--not as witty as she thinks she is," Alicia continues venomously.  "And if Mark could learn the difference between 'explaining something' and 'so condescending he's lucky I didn't rack him', that'd be great.  Penn and her--"
"Whistling," Dean says, nodding.  Cas mentioned that, too. That's gotta be annoying, now that he thinks about it.
"Joe's 'totally everyone's buddy' shtick, Zack's 'woe as me, hot guys are fighting over me', Sean actually falling for it, and Mira...." It takes him a moment to realize that sound is Alicia grinding her teeth as she glares at the floor.
He's so glad he's not the floor right now.  "Mira?" he prompts, surreptitiously checking the tile for Alicia-glare-based cracks; there aren't any (yet) and that's a genuine goddamn surprise.
"Mira," she agrees, eyes narrowing, and Dean's aware of a weird tickle starting in his throat.  "I loathed her.  She'd show off her routines and everyone thought she was small and adorable and so fucking talented, ooh, however do you do those things, must be magic.  It was worse watching her, sometimes; we had the same classes as kids, so it was like a tinier, prettier, more talented, more well-adjusted, more flexible, more awesome me who could still nail a round off, three backflips, and a double layout at eleven at night on bare dirt; what was that shit?  Salt in the wound?"
Before he realizes what's happening, he bursts into laughter.  Horrified, he tries to choke it back, but it's a lost cause: salt in the wound, Christ.  Alicia jerks her head up to glare at him, mouth working silently before she makes a sound like a squeezed kitten and collapses against his shoulder, giggling so hard it's just on the edge of hysterical. Fair enough: he's there, too.
"You wouldn't think," she says between helpless giggles, "I could think less of myself.  But silently hoping Mira landed on her face--just once, was that so much to ask?--proved how very wrong I was.  Educational, am I right?"
"Story of my life." He doesn't need Dean the former for this one; he's just the latest and most dramatic on a list that started with Dad.  "My brother--he went to college," he hears himself say.  "I was so pissed, could have killed him for leaving me and Dad.  His senior year, I went to see him, and...."
"Hot girlfriend, awesome apartment, bright future?" Alicia asks in the voice of depressed personal experience.  "'Look upon all the ways my life is awesome while I count them for you?  Can you count that high?'"
"Shitty student housing."  An apartment, a place he lived, a home.  A girlfriend, someone who'd he'd never have to lie to or leave.  Friends, a history he was writing himself, a future he'd decided for himself, a life.  "A full ride to Stanford: he was going to be a lawyer.  Did I mention that? Salt--"
"--in the fucking wound," she finishes for him.  "Tell me you at least lurked in the shadows and jumped him, got some feelings out.  I've found ambush does wonders for my mood, fact."
"Caught me at it and put me on my ass in like, a minute."  Alicia's arm slides around him for a comforting hug, which he appreciates.  "It wasn't then...no, it was then," he corrects himself impatiently.  "I just didn't want to admit it."
"You see what you could have been."  Her voice drops to a whisper.  "Who you could have been.  And you wonder why you didn't even try."
It occurs to him that in no world should anyone not be drinking heavily during a conversation like this.  Christ, there isn't even alcohol in the goddamn room.
"Brother? I can beat you there," she says.  "You know who I hated most of all?"
That's an easy one.  "Vera."
She lifts her head, eyes tear bright.  "Shittiest thing in the world, am I right?  I was one the people who tried to kill her, and I hated her for that, too."
He tightens the arm around her shoulder.
"She had everything.  My husband beat me up for fun; her girlfriend thought Vera stumbling was a world-stopping event and fuck everyone's lives if she got so much as bruised during training.  My best friend--" Her voice breaks, and beneath his arm, he feels her tense.  "My best friend fucked me over; hers is in love with her and thinks everything she does is wonderful.  Debra and Micah were both out with Erica and Heath that day on patrol," she interrupts herself.  "I resented her for that, too; crazy, am I right?  If Debra had just shoved Micah at the Croat or whatever happened...like, what the fuck, Vera, your girlfriend could have made my life a thousand percent better if she just...."
Alicia shakes herself.
"Yeah, I hated Vera. Vera was sad--justifiably, Debra was dead, it was awful, I said this was shitty, right?  Consider that a blanket disclaimer--and three people plus Cas to comfort and hover and make her feel better.  Vera has problems in class?  Special midnight tutorials just for her by the other woman in love with her."
"To be fair, it was for her, Joe, and a couple of others."  She looks up at him despairingly. "Sorry.  I mean, what the fuck?"
"Boom," she says, but now she just sounds tired. "She was late, one day.  After training ended, I mean, during first week of the two month thing.  I was--I don't even remember, there was a dummy involved and I was having feelings?  Ten minutes late, maybe, but everything stopped; Cas, Amanda, and like, six people went looking for her.  I get why," she adds, like she's offering what she knows is a terrible defense.  "I mean, paranoia as survival trait, it works; they watched out for each other.  I got that, but---Cas actually brought her physically back and deposited her by Joe.  She was glaring the whole time, like, what a burden it is that people care about me enough to worry when my bathroom break takes too long.  Baby, let me tell you about two weeks in that fucking cabin and no one even dropping by to see if I was alive."  She stiffens, wrapping her arms around herself.  "Or say hi.  That would have been nice, too."
"Alicia--"
"Sorry," she says quickly. "I didn't know I was still kinda cranky about that."  Before Dean can say 'are you fucking with me?', she adds,  "I'm over it, really, even the part where I recently found out Vera's also a hotter, better, smarter, practitioner-goddamn-nurse shaped me, who also single-handedly saved our leader's life. I brought many books, though." She looks at him solemnly.  "And sterilized many things, also super useful. It helped.  Cas told me so."
"Thank you," he says, nodding.  "Should have said that before; sorry about that."
She smiles, not quite convincing but damned if she doesn't try.  "You're welcome."
"So gotta know," he starts, not sure why he's even asking except that he wants to know.  "Why did you say yes when Cas asked you if you wanted to try the knife dancing thing?"
"Because he asked." She ducks her head, but not before he catches the flush spreading across her cheeks.  "It was so weird.  The guy I tried to kill, he knew who I was from a glance at me hiding in some very concealing bushes like--no idea, something weirder than a flasher.  Creepier, too: doing it while silently resenting everyone, come on.  He even knew my name--didn't expect that at all."  He nods, throat tight.  "If Cas had asked me to throw myself on the wooden blade he was holding, I might have actually done it.  Instead, he asked me if I wanted to try, so I did that instead."
Cas left something out when he told Dean about this, but it probably didn't even occur to him.  "You didn't know it was supposed to be hard."
"I thought Amanda was just fucking off because she didn't like knives and Cas was making her," she admits.  "Cas's expression when I was done, though--that was a clue."
"And then you did what, thirteen other dances to be sure?" She giggles.  "Come on, you were just showing off, admit it."
"Damn straight," she retorts.  "You watch Amanda being fucking awesome at everything with what looked like minimal effort and adorable Mira second in goddamn Nationals being super impressive for a week straight--you know she missed Olympic qualification by one bad balance beam routine?  Such bullshit--you get a little competitive." She sighs dejectedly.  "Fourth intermediate. Couldn't keep on beat, pissed me off so much, but I knew how to deal with it: work and a lot of it.  I didn't even realize I was that out of shape, do you believe it?"
Dean reviews Chitaqua's residents for the concept of 'out of shape' and finds nothing.  "You're kidding."
"Please," she says, and actually rolls her eyes. "Even the three month training, that was nothing compared to my schedule growing up," she scoffs.  "My parents put me in everything--possibly to minimize interaction with me, who knows: dance, gymnastics, figure skating, you name it, I was doing it.  When I decided to try competitive cheerleading, that's when things got interesting.  Sixteen hour days starting an hour before dawn in the weight room before warm-ups, dance, choreography--that was kind of almost a break--then off to the gym, my coach riding my ass and then me riding my squad's ass until I went to bed--more like 'fall helplessly onto relatively flat surface not even picky because fuck showers I can't feel my legs', but you get the idea. School year--not better, but class added variety."
"Cheerleading has coaches?"
"My parents hired me my own," she tells him.  "You don't make head at fifteen and lead your squad to first in state three years in a row on your can-do attitude.  Only practice, a strong work ethic, utter misery, and physical pain on a daily basis can get those kind of admittedly very impressive results. Also, ice packs: never leave home without 'em, I always say." She heaves a sigh.  "I was so out of shape, Dean--that intermediate was nothing.  Easy to fix: apply work ethic to practice and go."
Dean wonders if you can become exhausted by proxy just listening to someone describe what sounds like a creative way to make someone torture themselves and like it.  "So you came back the next night to keep going."
"I did," she agrees. "I mean, I would have anyway--this was fun, which I didn't even know things could be anymore, and Cas was like, five thousand times nicer than Coach--"
"Was your coach a literal demon?" he demands, horrified.
"In retrospect," she answers, frowning, "yeah, he probably was; can't knock his method, though.  But--I also came back because Cas--he asked me to.   Amanda offered bribes--really good ones, fuck sexuality, I'd heard stories about her and no lie, a great time would have been had by all--but Cas just asked.  But like it was important that I said yes."  She looks at him.  "You know?"
She wasn't invisible anymore.  "Yeah."  Clearing his throat, he decides to just ask.  "Micah and Erica didn't--uh, try to stop you?"
She snorts.  "Oh yeah.  They talked to me--separately, of course--and they threatened me, like I cared.  They couldn't kill me, not after what happened at the cabin, so what was left?" She laughs quietly, shaking her head.  "There was nothing they could do to me that came close to what I'd done to myself.  And it wasn't like they did anything but talk.  Eventually, it hit me why; they couldn't do anything.  I was at the training field every night, right under Cas's eye--I was expected there."  
Her voice changes into something that hurts to hear: wonder.  "Cas would wait for me to arrive, and if I was late, he'd ask why and wait for me to answer.  Before we started, he'd ask about my day, what happened, if I was injured on duty.  If I didn't tell him--I did that once," she interrupts herself. "Only once, though.  I--my side, just a bruised rib, but it hadn't happened on duty and I didn't think...anyway, I missed a step, and Cas saw--I don't know, but he stopped me and asked who I'd rather have examine me in the future before and after each session, him or Amanda.  And I should know he checked Amanda daily and it was always professional or something like that, he used a lot of words.  Also, I got a lecture on disappointment and losing fingers: I was weeks getting over that."  
Dean doesn't smile, but he's gotta wonder if Cas borrowed one of the other Dean's speeches. "You don't say."
"I said he could do it.  It was nice," she says, a smile in her voice.  "He'd ask about a bruise from weeks before, or about my ankle because I'd mentioned I'd stumbled, or--it was nice.  He remembered everything I told him--which after the name thing, I should have seen coming--and...."  She pauses for a quick breath.  "Sometimes, after, Amanda would ask me to hang out with her and Risa and Vera for a couple of hours. Kamal and Jody would walk me home so they could tell me more about rollerblading--it was really cool, like figure skating with wheels, I had no idea--or Mira and I would spend hours talking about our respective coaches and showing off, as you do...." She trails off, curling more tightly into herself.  "That was--that was nice, too."
He remembers Christmas Eve with Cas, Amanda, and Joe.  "Yeah, I bet."  Clearing his throat (again, what's with that?), he asks, "And when the two months were done?"
"I'd finished the master series with two knives," she says, eyes distant.  "I'd graduated to live steel two weeks earlier, Amanda spent the first three days watching between her fingers, for one can easily lose a finger.  I was missing something, though," she adds, forehead creasing in thought.  "It's not enough to be fast and know all the moves like you breathe; it has to be like you're breathing them.  Does that make sense?"  He nods; he can guess, at least.  "Nothing can teach you that but practice, and I wasn't there, not yet.  I needed more time.  And I was out of it." 
She's quiet for a moment before continuing.  "The last day, I said thank you, and Cas gave me the practice blade I'd used in training and my first two real blades: perfect size, perfect weight, perfect everything, and had never been used before.  No idea where he got them. Then he drew the circle, told Amanda to call the time, and invited me inside for one dance.  The point...." She swallows.  "I had to blood each knife, but the cuts had to be shallow, only enough to draw blood, nothing else.  Not easy.  He made two hits--and so did I.  He probably threw it, but even Amanda wasn't sure, though granted, looking through her fingers obscured the view."  
He would, too.
"It's easy to kill," she says. "Really easy.  That's the funny thing; it's easy, you need skill, yeah but it's nothing compared to avoiding it, that's the real test.  He told me it was ritual--the first time you use your blade, you blood it on your greatest enemy, your most trusted friend, or yourself, who, because this is Cas, explained could be both or either, but never neither: that's a quote, by the way." She takes a deep breath.  "I went home, life went on, duty was duty, Micah regained the ability to unexpectedly lose his temper--but not as often, because 'private' wasn't easy, with people coming by to see if I wanted to hang out and me not always being there--and I would stay awake at night thinking how not only was I a murderer and an attempted murderer and how no one would probably like me all that much if they found out about either of those, I still didn't know what I was missing in the master series.  Self-pity and a lot of it, is what I'm saying.  One night, it occurred to me at least one of those I could try and fix, so I got up, got my blades, and started out the door--and Micah tried to stop me."
Tried.  "And you stabbed him?" Christ, he didn't realize how much he was looking forward to this part.
"First we talked--at least, I said 'move' and he said 'no', but more words and some physical persuasion--and believe it or not, that might have convinced me. Then he grabbed my right wrist, and as it turns out, I was holding a knife in that hand; who saw that coming?" Slowly, she starts to smile.  "Didn't even think about it: kicked his feet out from under him, put my first knife in his thigh and held the second one at his throat.  It was me, though; that was the weird part.  It was the me that for two months, I kept leaving on the training field every night; why did I do that?  I told Micah he had until dusk to leave Chitaqua, or I'd find his femoral two inches above his dick and watch him bleed out.  And I meant it."
"Good," he says, meeting her eyes and sharing her satisfaction.
"Then I left.  Went to the practice field and worked on the first of the master series again until a couple of hours before dawn," she says.  "Went home--no Micah--and went to bed, slept like a baby.  Spent the next day on the training field for more practice, went home, no Micah, but I was tired, so I just went to bed." She shrugs. "When I reported to the infirmary for duty at dawn, Darryl told me Micah limped out of camp--well, in a jeep, I guess--at dusk the day before.  The way he looked at me...." 
"He knew how Micah got that limp."
"Yeah," she says, voice edged with pleased malice.  "Micah told him while he fixed him up.  His face, Dean--it didn't make up for that medical report and two weeks in that cabin, but it was a nice down payment, you know what I mean?"
"Yeah," he says, grinning at her.  "I do." 
"When I went to the mess for lunch, I found out everyone knew.  And it hit me--Micah was gone, and Stephanie--she went with him." She wets her lips.  "She stayed with a man who unexpectedly lost his temper like a lot, went to the salon every six weeks because he liked blondes--God, I actually went along with that for almost nine years, do you believe it?--and killed babies, and then tried to kill more people, and--and she was gone.  Alicia, though--Alicia was something of a mystery; I hadn't had a lot of time getting to know her.  But, I did know she was very good with knives and people liked her, both awesome things, and I wanted to find out what else she was.
"Amber didn't like who she was living with; I said she could move in with me," she continues.  "Then Brenda had a fight with her boyfriend, and I had two roommates to hang out with.  Amanda and I sparred twice a week; once in her specialty, once in mine.  I learned surgery from Darryl and how to sew from Vera and how to drink from Ana and how to conspire against my team leader with Joe.  I practiced every day I was in the camp, and after a month, I knew I had the master dances down.  Cas came out on the training field every night for a week to help me build my dance, the one that was all of them, first with wood, then with live steel.  Then I seduced him the last night because he was hot, I'd heard from many reliable sources it would be incredibly fun, and--I could do that now.  I could do anything or everything, whatever I wanted.  So that's what I did."  She looks at him ruefully.  "You probably won't believe this, but--by then, I'd forgotten all about Stephanie.  It wasn't that hard; we were nothing alike.  She was afraid all the time, and tired, and weak--"
"She wasn't weak," Dean interrupts, holding her eyes. "You weren't weak.  You couldn't have done anything you did after what happened at Cas's cabin if you were weak."
He looks at her, trying to see blonde hair, a lawyer's gorgeous wife whose friends were sleeping with the husband that beat her and whose parents didn't care, who dressed up for lawyer parties (a circle of Hell all on its own) and pretended this was supposed to be a happy life--and can't.  He can see the teenage cheerleader who worked to be the best at what she did, though, the EMT whose shifts included patching up guys on the sidewalk while under fire who gave no fucks about her manicure, and the woman who went to the hospital nursery because those kids didn't have anyone else to give them mercy.  She wasn't weak, not by a longshot, and he hates everyone who made her believe such an obvious lie.
"When I saw Micah outside Ichabod...I didn't even think about it, just reached for my knife and waited for him to get in range," she whispers.  "Five feet, Dean: I keep thinking about that.  Five.  Fucking.  Feet."  She pauses.  "Not to hide anything, I didn't even think about that.  I just...."
"You wanted to kill him," Dean says.  "And Stephanie, once and for all." 
"Yeah," she breathes.  "That'd be it."
Dean tries to think of what to say, but his mind's blank.  "Kyle," he blurts out, relieved.  "I forgot to tell you."
"I heard you talking to Joe and Amanda."  She frowns at the floor.  "I was almost out the door and then realized I forgot the notebook and--anyway, heard it.  Thank you."
"You didn't think I'd do it."  It'd be a goddamn miracle to even get benefit of the doubt there.
"I believed you," she answers, oblivious to her extempore performance of a miracle in three words.  "That's why I went back to get the notebook in the first place, so I could check something before I talked to you.  It was nice to hear, though."
Right, that.  "So what did you lie about?"
Alicia straightens, composing herself, and he doesn't wonder anymore how she does it.  She's been doing that shit for a long time.  "So what I lied about--Erica's plan, such as it is, is still unknown but--but I think she might accept a counteroffer, or at least think about it. So not a lie so much as a very big omission to my assessment earlier."
He honestly doesn't need to even ask, but why not?  "A counteroffer."
She nods.  "Me."
He thinks how to put this tactfully, then realizes that in this case, even if he could, he shouldn't.
"This room would be a miracle, yes," he says.  "It could also be called a prison.  Which means it will also need manual controls for you to adjust the strength as well as an override that will shut it down entirely."
"What? Why--"
"And the shutdown mechanism must be both well-hidden and easy for you to access so you can easily do it yourself, even if bound."
"Bound?" she asks in alarm, voice rising.  "Why would I want to--"
"Non-recreationally."
Alison reddens. "Uh, I didn't mean that I, uh--"  Castiel raises an eyebrow, and she laughs, shaking her head. "Sorry, forgot who I was talking to.  Bucket list?"
"More a hobby, I think," he answers, matching her smile and attempting (with very little success) not to imagine Dean thus on display in their bed. He takes a moment to ponder the libido's inexplicable inability to understand appropriate time and context; this is ridiculous.
"You were saying?" Alison says innocently, chin in her hands and grinning mockingly.  "Faraday cage, bondage...."
That, yes.  "I'll also need to teach you how to break a Faraday cage with the power of your mind alone."  He tries not to slump, but really, his to-do list is far too long already (and these jeans are becoming uncomfortable).  "Which means I have to work out how that can be done."
Alison frowns, settling back in her chair.  "In case someone locked me in there.  You think anyone would?"
"It doesn't matter if anyone would," he says evasively. "It only matters that they could.  But yes, it's inevitable; it will happen, so best plan for it.  You're a psychic, and your abilities make you an asset--and that means to someone, somewhere, you are also a liability.  Eventually, someone--from intentions good to terrible--will want to imprison you.  That Missouri and Pamela--if I'm correct, and I am--discovered this, and I was able to extrapolate it from simply knowing they were psychics who had normal lives, then someone else will.  Especially those motivated to find out, for whatever reason."
"Not kill me?"
"I'm certain some will want to, yes, but far more worrying will be those who want to use you," he tells her.  "And before you state nothing could make you, I can think of several things that would make me if I had your abilities."
"Dean," she says, nodding. "Well, for me, Teresa."
"Manuel and his family, Tony and his, Sudha and hers, Neeraja, Dolores....the list goes on.  For that matter, this town."
She looks down.  "Not a people person, remember?"
"It's different when they're your own."  She gives him a sour look but doesn't deny it.  "However, it's equally likely that fear would be the motivator.  Someone who is afraid but thinks imprisoning you for the safety of the world would absolve them of having to commit murder."
She makes a face.  "I see it, though right now, that doesn't seem too bad."
"Suicide by ex-angel sounds like a good idea right now," he retorts.  "At this moment, I'm skeptical you are capable of having a good idea, and I mean that in the most sympathetic way possible."
She rolls her eyes, which he takes as agreement.
"And in case you're still not sure, how much do you want to be a very useful item of clothing for a very inspired demon?" She winces.  "This also gives a measure of safety to whoever works on this; Teresa's bond with you will protect her mind, I can't be read and because of that, neither can Dean.  It's everyone else's mind who will be a problem.  In this much, we're fortunate this can't be implemented immediately, since I'm as unsure as you are about the ethics of removing memories in a case like this, with or without permission."
"There's that, yeah."  She sighs. "So yeah, I get this isn't a now thing.  We're talking what, a few weeks--"
"As soon as the barrier is up, depending on travel conditions, Wichita should have something we can use temporarily," he interrupts, and Alison straightens in her chair.  "A team from Chitaqua and one from Ichabod can accompany you and search while you rest.  It's effectively abandoned, so at your current range--and for at least two more expansions--you shouldn't be able to hear anyone. I'll leave orders to let you sleep for as long as you wish and a warning you have my permission to give them nightmares for the rest of their lives if they wake you up."
Alison nods shakily.  "Three days?  Three days?"
"At most," he says, mentally reviewing the teams: Sean, Christina, James, or Damiel would be best; Teresa and Manuel will select the Ichabod team, and it's probable Teresa will accompany them, which assures that Chitaqua's and Ichabod's teams will answer to a competent commander.  Perhaps more should go, now that he considers it; though it's likely many of the refugees will wish to stay, experience with humans suggests most will want to return to their own homes, and it would be recommended to assure adequate supplies are available for both the town and those who wish to leave (and vehicles, he remembers uneasily; most of those driven here are now part of the wall).  "Assuming we all survive--"
"Oh, we're surviving," she says flatly. "I'm not dying before I get at least one good night's sleep and thirty recreational minutes with my fiancée; that's bullshit right there."  He starts to ask why the second is urgent when he remembers Alison is an excellent projector and would probably feel--awkward--if she accidentally did that during sexual relations. Humans feel--that, he reflects, baffled yet again by the ways of humanity.  "Three days," she says in a different voice, and he can almost see her drawing up strength from stores already unacceptably depleted. "I can do this."
"It doesn't matter if you can or can't," he says.  "Christina's and Sean's teams will be assigned to you for the next forty-eight hours in alternating shifts until the barrier is up again.  Their orders are to remove you from Ichabod by any means necessary should you indicate you're losing control, place a minimum of thirty miles between you and the nearest town, and stay with you until either Teresa, Manuel, Dean, or I come to get you.  Which," he reflects, "could actually be Wichita, which come to think would be highly convenient.  We'll send them in that direction."
"But--Cas, if I lose control too fast, they have to...." She hesitates. "Take care of the problem."
"You'll call for me," he says.  "And I'll come to you."
She wets her lips.  "Cas, you were right.  There are some things you don't ask--"
"To protect you."
Her eyebrows draw together. "From what?"
"From everything and everyone that might threaten your life," he answers.  "Including yourself, should the worst occur."
She stares at him, lips parted on an untaken breath.
"Whatever you do, you are and will always be Alison," he says.  "If you forget that, I'll be there to remind you until you remember it for yourself."
"If I--" It's barely a whisper.  "Why?"
"You're my friend," he answers.  "Whatever you do, you are and will remain that.  If you forget, I'll remind you of that as well."
The knock on the door is a welcome distraction; Castiel gets to his feet to answer it, smiling at Walter.  "You have the cameras?"
"I do," he agrees with a wide smile.  "And the TV.  Got 'em in the conference room downstairs.  You need me to install them?"
"I would appreciate it," he agrees, turning to see Alison staring at him.  "If you'll excuse me, duty calls.  Have a good evening."
She blinks before saying, knee-jerk, "You, too."
"No."
"Yeah, I figured you'd say that," she says and he realizes belatedly this is like Cas: too fucking much thinking.  Leave her alone, she might think them into a solution no one saw coming to epic problems (that they also didn't see coming), or straight to goddamn hell, you just don't know.  "Okay, hear me out."
"What was I doing before?"
She makes a face.  "Right.  Look--I didn't know about the Crossroads, she never even mentioned it, never took me there.  She took all her team--including my husband--but not me.  She used everything she could to make me say yes, but she didn't put a gun to my head.  You see where I'm going with this?"
"That she was crazy?"  Alicia looks disappointed, and he relents.  "She cared about you."
She did care, as much as she could for anyone, and that's the worst part; Alicia was someone like her, trapped just as much as Erica was with first a shitty SO and then in that goddamn basement; responsible for deaths, Erica blaming herself for her family's death and Alicia giving mercy to those kids; unlike her family, unlike herself, she could protect Alicia.  She could watch out for her, get her on her team and away from Micah, drop in when off-duty and make it impossible for him to unexpectedly lose his temper, scare him to fucking death.  Erica cared, and it probably surprised her how much...and that still wasn't enough.  
"Yeah," Alicia agrees, bringing him back to the present.  "Dean, if I could distract her that much in the middle of her epic Croat attack, I can do it now."
"Distract her, that part I get," Dean explains.  "I'm falling down on your plans after that."
"After what?" she asks in confusion.
"That's what I'm talking about," he says.  "Is there an 'after' here for you?"
"Dean, I didn't say yes to attempted murder, have sex with the almost victim like a lot--and you, for that matter--and continue to hide it for two and a half years without what one might call a super-flexible conscience," she says, and gotta give her credit, he can't exactly work out the location of the lie without some quiet time and maybe a drink.  "Obviously, I am not racked with guilt, you know what I mean?"
"Oh yeah," he agrees, just to see what she comes up with next.  "You rolled with it."
The blue eyes narrow in suspicion before they clear.  "I have a proven, very lively interest in continuing to live, you get what I mean?  I'm not going out there to die for my sins."
"You planned your own execution."
"Yeah that." She makes a face, but this is Alicia and she doesn't disappoint. "I had a bad day, much stress, almost despair does that.  I'm over it; exile works for me, very progressive of you in our brand new world.  Full, public confession, a trial, judgement of guilty, you're merciful and commute the sentence to--"
"Ten day ration pack and the border," he finishes, impressed despite himself.  "Not bad.  Here's the thing--"
"Then you don't have to make yourself shoot me," she adds, and he forgets to breathe.  "Some things--I wasn't thinking before, it was kind of a dick move, am I right?  Execution isn't murder, but the person who pulls the trigger is the only one who can say how much that distinction matters.  Sorry about that."
Dean breathes again, but it's just reflex.
"Anyway," she continues. "I really don't want to die--as my actions up to now illustrate--and in any case, me dying would miss the point of this exercise considerably."
"The point," he says blankly, then finds where this left off. "Distraction, right. Okay, distract her.  Why?"
"The question is 'from what'," she answers confidently.  "'From what', you would ask now if I gave you time, but we don't have much and we need to start soon--"
"Start what?"
"I'll distract Erica while you go outside the ward line," she answers.  "Drive to the first Crossroad--by my calculations, about a mile and change from the Eastern Gate--summon Crowley, and tell him to come pack up his misbehaving minions and take them home."
Dean looks at her, not even sure where to start with that one.  "What?"
Before she can answer, there's a knock at the door.  Glancing at Alicia, he waits for her nod.  "What?"
Jeremy pokes his head in. "Joe said to tell you fifteen minute warning; Micah's on his way."
"I'll be right down."  He waits to close the door before standing up and looks down to see Alicia take a deep breath.  "You're kidding, right?"
"It'll work," she says.  "If nothing else--"
"You get yourself killed," he interrupts.  "And how the hell am I supposed to get Crowley to help us?  The operative word here is 'help'; for all we know--"
"It's not authorized, he won't like her fucking around, and you'll think of something to do with those two things," Alicia says quickly.  "So, you ready for Micah's perp walk? I am."
"You don't have to be there."
She nods.  "I know.  I still gotta do it."
"Then you know you're not doing it alone." He extends a hand, and Alicia hesitates, looking up at him.  "Not weak," he says quietly, and she puts her hand in his, calluses rough against his palm as he pulls her up.  "Let's go."
"Wait." She tips her head as she looks into his eyes. "I need to tell Cas.  Now, before--before I lose my nerve."
"Alicia--"
"I get you're trying to think how not to and still get this plan by him," she says.  "You could, maybe--"
"Thanks for the vote of confidence."
"--because he trusts you," she finishes brutally, and Dean shuts his mouth.  "You shouldn't have had to keep this from him in the first place."
"I didn't do it for you."
"That was true before," she answers, voice barely a whisper.  "But not now.  You can't hide this, not from Cas; you don't deserve to have to live with that. He doesn't deserve any of this, but all the options are shitty. It always chases you, Dean, your past, and I've had a good run, but that's all it was. It caught me, and I'm not running anymore; time to get this done."
"What happened to you--"
"So?  There's been worse; I saw it.  I was in Ichabod after that attack, and I didn't see any of them give the fuck up and decide to throw in with murder because of their goddamn feelings.  I won't go back to that, I'm not--I won't be that person. I'm not Micah and I won't be fucking Erica; there is no excuse.  I have to tell him."
"You're not telling him," Dean says quietly.  "I am."
"Dean--"
"It was my decision," he says.  "I ordered you not to.  I'll tell him."
 Her mouth works silently.  "Dean...."
He doesn't think about it, easing her into his arms as she starts to shake.  "Breathe," he says hoarsely.  "It'll be okay."
"Then say that I couldn't, that--that you had to because I wouldn't," she whispers against his shoulder. "Okay?  Don't take the blame for it.  It was me, and--it was all me.  Promise?"
"I will," he lies, tightening his arms.  "It'll be okay. I promise."
To his surprise, the lobby's clear of everyone but Jeremy and Joelle, both standing near Joe by the door and looking hopeful.  Pausing on the first floor balcony, he calls down, "Cas back yet?"
"Downstairs with Walter," Joe answers.  "They're just finishing up with the cameras. Said it'll be about a minute"
They not only interrogate people, they record it now.  Okay, then.  "Awesome."  He looks on Jeremy and Joelle.  "You two," he says, jerking his head toward the mess, and looking disgruntled, they reluctantly leave, feet almost visibly dragging.  "Everyone else?"
"Gave the order to stay away," Joe says, looking amused.  "I blamed you."
Cas and Walter emerge from the hall leading to the basement, talking quietly, before Walter nods, slapping Cas's shoulder, and Dean grins at the look on his face.  As Walter starts toward the door, he glances up and sees Dean. "Everything's up and running," he says. "Call me if you have any problems."
"Will do, and thanks," he answers, and with a wave, Walter leaves as Cas takes the steps two at a time.  "Good job," he says when Cas joins them.
"The television is located in the unnecessarily large coat closet next door." He gives Dean a baffled look.  "Why is there a coat closet by a former file room in the basement?"
"Probably so you can hang up your coat before going to the dungeon I hope to God we don't find down there," he retorts, distracted by wondering what the hell is up with this building.
At a knock on the door--loud enough that it's obvious that it's a warning--Joe waits for his nod before opening it. Amanda comes in first, coolly impassive, but even from here, he picks up the low grade anger and from the way her hands rub against her thighs and stroke lovingly over her gun...yeah.  Micah has that effect on people.
Ana and Evelyn come next, with Micah behind them--hands zip tied behind his back, oh, he owes Naresh here--and a disgruntled look on his face, followed by Natalie and Rachel.  Dean takes him in; shoulders slightly hunched, a lot of the smug is gone, which he approves of very much, and he looks a little more rumpled than an easy two street walk would justify.  Also--
"Still has a limp," Alicia murmurs in satisfaction.
As they come to a stop in the middle of the lobby, Micah throws resentful looks at Evelyn and Natalie when they come up on either side of them.  He checks them quickly, and there's definitely a 'done with this shit' going on with them, but this being Micah, the only surprise is they're not (openly) displaying a desire for immediate homicide.
"Oh God," Alicia breathes, and despite the strain, he sees a faint smile curing her mouth.  "You sent a team of women?  No wonder he's pissed."
He glances down at the lobby and then at Alicia; right, that shit goes hand in hand with beating up their wives. "Wish I'd done it on purpose now."
"You didn't?" She cocks her head.  "Huh."
"What?"
"Nothing," she answers, and Dean turns his attention back to the lobby, where Joe's just closed the door.  Glancing at him (Dean shakes his head, let Micah stew for a few seconds) he goes to Amanda.    They move away a few feet to talk, leaving Micah surrounded by a team (of women) who give no shits about him.  He half-hopes Micah takes it into his head to be really stupid and try to pull something; Ana has perfected the 'bored while throwing someone to the ground' expression, which he's beginning to think is a special class you take when you join the Marines (Dad could do that, too).
Micah shifts impatiently, then takes a step forward and meets Ana's hand and looks like he's not sure whether to be insulted she did it or horrified to realize he's actually been pushed back an entire step.  "Joe, what's the hold up?"
Joe ignores him so thoroughly even Dean's impressed, grinning at something Amanda says; he wonders if Amanda's sharing her store of seriously filthy jokes that she usually saves for when she's drunk and breaks into giggles before the punchline.  Her and James.
"Dean," Cas says quietly, "what are we doing right now?"
"He thinks he's important," Dean answers, leaning his elbows on the balcony. "If he knows what Erica's doing, he also knows we're on a deadline.  Bet he thinks that makes him the most important person in the world, because he has all the answers."
Alicia nods, eyes fixed on Micah as he looks between his guards angrily.  "Not a good way to start an interrogation."
"Exactly."  Micah glares at Ana's back, then at Joe and Amanda.  Joe's eyes flicker to Dean, and he nods, pushing off the balcony.  "Be right back."
Micah's too involved in glaring at Joe and Amanda to even notice until he's halfway down the stairs, head jerking around.  "Dean, what--"
He waves a hand at Micah, going to Joe and Amanda. "Give you any trouble?" he asks softly, and Amanda rolls her eyes.  "Who'd Cas assign to guard him?"
"Mark and Gary," Joe answers.
Dean slaps his shoulder.  "Good man.  Amanda, any reason not to leave him in the room alone to think about his sins?"
She shrugs.  "Table, four chairs: he can't do much, and I did a strip search before we left; he's got nothing and I do mean nothing.  Naresh kept his belt."
Which would explain why Micah's rumpled.  "Give him fifteen minutes, and you two start with him," he decides in a moment of inspiration; Joe sighs and Amanda slumps, perfect.  "When do you want me to check in?"
"Give us at least thirty minutes, so about an hour or so?" Joe checks for Amanda's nod.  "Tell Gary or Mark to call us out of the room. May want to replace us both, actually, make Micah wonder what we're doing."
"Got it."  Nodding at them both, he starts for the stairs again, pacing himself for casual and give Micah all the time he needs to--
"Dean!" Micah snaps, and Dean pauses on the first step, turning around.  "What's going on?"
"They'll explain," he says, and turning back around, continues up the stairs.  
"Ana, this way," Amanda says, and Dean reaches the top just in time to see Rachel giving Micah a not at all gentle push. He stumbles a step, eyes fixed on Alicia almost leaning over the balcony.
"Wait," he says, taking a step toward the balcony and Evelyn neatly pushes him back. "Stop it!  Alicia!" 
"You ready?" he asks Alicia and Cas, jerking his head; they'll use the back stairs.  From the lobby comes the sound of shuffling, and Micah shouts Alicia's name as she turns away.
"Sure." 
"Alicia!" Micah yells, and then there's the faint sound of a grunt.  Trying not to smile, he leads Alicia and Cas a little down the hall before turning to face them.
"Alicia, where's your team?" he asks.
"Volunteer Services," she says with a ghost of her usual smile.  "We're still running short, so...." She trails off, the echo of grief she's barely had time to feel, much less deal with in her voice: Andy, yeah.  
"Be available for the next couple of hours," he says, nodding a dismissal before turning to Cas.  "I need to talk to you. Meet me in our room, okay?  I'm going to leave word with Jeremy in case we're needed."
Cas nods easily, starting down the hall to the back stairs, and Dean doesn't pretend even to himself that's not a short reprieve as he starts for the front stairs.
When he opens the door, Cas is--fuck his life--just finished straightening the bed.  Smoothing down the quilt, he looks up at Dean with a smile that fades immediately, and Dean wonders what's showing on his face right now. "Dean?"
"Sit down."  Looking around their room, Dean takes a deep breath as Cas gingerly sits down on the edge of the bed.  "Alicia's got a plan."
Cas nods, waiting.
"It might work," he adds, because he thinks it just might.  "She's going to try and distract Erica while I summon Crowley."
"That sounds rather suicidal," Cas comments, shifting back against the headboard as Dean perches on the foot of the bed, feeling lost.  "Erica's reaction to Alicia two days ago was unusual, yes, but--"
"That part'll work," Dean interrupts.  Two days ago--it was two days ago he found out; it feels like forever.  "Cas, there's something--I found out something. I didn't tell you, and that's on me.  I didn't know how."
"All right." Dean makes himself look at him, feeling sick at the worry on his face. "Are you okay?"
No, he's not.  "After--after we got inside the walls after the attack," Dean starts, holding Cas's eyes, "Alicia told me something."  Just get this out.  "It's about what happened at your cabin two years ago.  She was part of it."
It doesn't get easier; if anything, every word gets harder, and the worst part is, Cas doesn't say a goddamn thing.  From the talk inside Ichabod's walls two days ago to the one today, Dean barrels through on sheer desperation; if he stops talking, he may not be able to start again, not with the searing memory of Cas's expression when he told him Alicia was one of the assassins. He's thinks he's going to see that until the day he dies.
When he's done, he doesn't have any time to be relieved; like the professional he is, Cas starts putting together the relevant portions and ruthlessly exploring the connection between Alicia's past with Erica and now, the obsession of a demon for the humanity they left behind in the people they once knew.  Dean answers each question without hesitation,  exploring territory he's avoided for years; his memories of Hell may be limited, but like knows like and Erica's actions are as familiar as sliding into a well-worn suit.  
Sitting back against the headboard, Cas frowns, eyes distant.  "I didn't realize that was common among demons when confronted with their past on earth."
"It's not," Dean says, flexing his right hand restlessly, trying to get rid of the phantom pressure against his palm.  "The rack uses all you are; everything you've seen, everything you've done, everything you felt, and it twists it all until you break.  Nine times out of ten, it burns it out of you, but the tenth time...it loves that, did you know that? That piece--it's like an open wound, just begging to be ripped apart, and it does it until it's all you are.  That's the best part; when you get up, you gotta take it with you.  It is the you it makes on the rack."  Annoyed, he makes a fist before flattening his palm against his knee.  "Erica died wanting Lucifer destroyed; everything she did at Chitaqua was for that."
"And Alicia?"  Cas's voice expresses nothing more than cool interest.  "They were friends, I understand that, but--"
"They weren't just friends," Dean interrupts, wondering how to explain. "You don't sell your soul for anyone or anything but yourself; killing Lucifer was probably supposed to be how she made up for what happened to her family.  She didn't just sacrifice a friend to get that 'yes'; she betrayed someone she was protecting, someone who trusted her.  She used that trust against her."
"Like her lover did to her," Cas says, nodding.  "Assuming Alicia was fully accurate, of course."
"Cas--"
"I'm simply making an observation," he interrupts, with an edge to his voice that almost makes Dean flinch.  "When Alicia came to Chitaqua, we did a background check, of course.  That she had anything other than a driver's license or passport was suspicious in itself; many didn't even have that."
"Best forgeries money can buy?"
"You can't buy forgeries this good," he answers.  "They were meant to stand up to investigation, that much was obvious."
"She said she was working on them for a while."  And he can guess why.
"Chuck's search found roughly five years' worth of information: job history, credit rating, rental history, utility bills; you can't buy a forgery this well done. Mostly in the south and southwest: I suppose whatever state she was living in wasn't anywhere near there.  You said Alicia knew the state hospital well?" He nods. "That fits."
"Why?"
"Her identification traced back to a child that was in foster care in Texas when she disappeared from the public record.  For roughly sixteen years, that is, until that social security number was used in east Texas roughly five years ago."  Dean tries to look like he's following.  "A state hospital is funded by public funds; it would be where people without insurance would be taken.  Depending on the size, it may have even had at least one state employee and perhaps even a unit who could determine Medicaid eligibility for patients that came there for emergency services, such as children or pregnant women.  A caseworker would have at minimum read access to everyone who had ever applied Medicaid in that state or who moved there while receiving Medicaid from another state, including those who received foster care.  Alicia must have had a friend looking for her to find a record she could use, and since doubtless Texas is not her actual state of origin, that friend contacted someone in Texas.
"The social security number matched two types of Medicaid cases for the same person, one recent--at the time, opened eleven months before, and one opened twenty-two years ago; the older one was for foster care.  That case was closed unable to locate after she disappeared from the group home she was living in, a presumed runaway."
"And you're sure that it's--not really her?" Dean asks slowly.  
"You seem to be, since you took her disclosures at face value," Cas answers, and Dean stops himself from wincing.  "However, yes, I'm certain; that first case was far too old."
"Uh...." Dean tries and fails to work that out.  "Okay, I give up; it should be old, that was what, twenty one years ago now?"
"Exactly," Cas agrees, and he just picks up the sense of satisfaction.  "The original case was created in 1987, when the child entered foster care at age eight, on a serviceable but uninspiring DOS computer system, and was closed eight years later, in 1995.  Starting in 2003, the state upgraded the system in stages to a Windows-based web application.  Only currently active cases, those closed in the previous seven years, and closed cases for children who were still under the age eighteen at the time were flagged for importation; the rest were archived, which makes sense; why bother with historical cases with no relevance since they were no longer children?"
"Missed by a year," Dean says, nodding.  "So it wasn't on the system."
"It shouldn't have been; not only was it over the seven year retention limit, by 2003, the child would have been twenty-four years old; it would have failed on all import criteria.  It could have been an import irregularity, yes; no system is perfect, of course," Cas muses, and Dean is reminded Cas named all the laptops in Chitaqua and Dean still hasn't taken his Microsoft Office course.  "However, this particular archived record was imported exactly two weeks before a petition for a change of name was filed in Dallas, Texas, and a driver's license applied for in Corpus Christi.  The coincidence was rather striking."
"You win," Dean says with a grin, impressed.  "Not bad."
Cas tilts his head with a ghost of a smile that vanishes, and Dean remembers right, they're not-fighting.  "If you're wondering if there's any way to verify what Alicia told you, no.  She was meticulous and very, very thorough, and most importantly, she deliberately left a paper trail to further establish this identity.  As I said, you can't buy forgeries this good; real people with real lives do not have such a meticulously organized paper trail and history."
"Was she a blonde when she got here?"
"Dark brown, but very short. Why?" Abruptly, he stills, blue eyes dark. "She was going to escape her husband."
"Real people aren't married to a partner in a law firm and have shitty parents with a lot of disposable income."  That's not a guess: the classes she took as a kid don't come cheap, especially when you have a fucking private cheerleader coach.  He wonders how it started; one shitty night after Micah unexpectedly lost his temper, and she thought about having a different life (in Texas, but it takes all kinds).  On a guess, it started as a what-if; something to get her through the day, never thinking it would work.  And it did, actually, but Micah found her anyway.  How?
"What you know now is far more than Chuck and I could discover," Cas says.  "That would include her first name."
"And nothing about anyone named 'Stephanie' and the mass murder of seven kids on the news about three years ago?"
"No," Cas answers, and in it, Dean hears a lot of things he doesn't want to think about.  He hid Alicia's complicity from Cas, because he couldn't believe she'd do it and there had to be a reason, and maybe she gave him exactly what he wanted.  He'd be hiding it still if she hadn't told him to tell Cas: to protect her.  From one of her victims, from Cas, after telling him that he didn't always have to take care of himself, that he'd protect him.  That he didn't have to be afraid everyone was after him, that he wasn't alone, because Dean had his back.  Sure, Dean will protect him from everyone, except the people he likes, of course; that's different.  Cas not telling the other Dean about the team leaders makes a lot of sense, come to think; Dean really liked them, too. 
"If it was pre-epidemic Croat," Cas says abruptly, "it would be suspicious if there were evidence available."
"How do you figure?"  
"If she set off the fire alarm to clear the hospital, the authorities might have used an actual fire as the cover.  The building was burned, and it would be given out that it killed those children as well as a convenient method of disposing of Croat-infested bodies without moving them."
"You're saying you wouldn't have noticed a mysterious hospital fire on the news?" 
"A perfectly mundane hospital fire in an old building?  Take as a given, if it were a state hospital, it was probably old," Cas answers caustically, and it belatedly occurs to Dean that sounded like he thought Cas was sleeping on the job.  "Dean, think of the national news and how many tragedies would occur daily in your world; a hospital fire, even with casualties, wouldn't have made the front page of CNN.  This world was the same then: we searched for the unusual and patterns of incidents, but even then, only a small percentage were we able to investigate.  Three years ago, the authorities were experts at concealing outbreaks; even if any of us had noticed it, it certainly wouldn't have gained our attention."  He looks briefly amused.  "A female mass murder of infants, however, would have been front page news, and I promise you, that would have gained our undivided attention."
He can see it, and not just because of the convenience of 'because fire'; Micah was partner in a law firm, and in Dean's experience that meant 'money, lots of it' and almost as many lawyer friends.  He can't imagine how it wouldn't be a nightmare, especially considering how long it usually took shit like that to get to trial.  Years: years during which they might have to cover dozens of mini-outbreaks and that unbelievable story would become more and more believable.  
"So they'd just--ignore what Alicia did?"
"Assuming they even knew who did it; the nurse seems to have been the only witness, and if she had any sense, she disappeared before someone did that for her.  Unless there were security cameras present--and in an older hospital, even in the maternity wing or the nursery, that's something of a question--they may not have even been aware of who did it."  Then, with a flicker of something almost approving, "Alicia said she knew that hospital.  She'd also know if there were cameras present and where, and very likely how to turn them off."
So a Croat outbreak that never happened, in a hospital that burned down, identification they have no way to trace to a real person, and no way to verify Alicia's story other than taking her at her word or ask Micah, and hey, she covered why they can't believe him, either.  Except the fact that there's a warrant for her arrest, and if Erica got that from the border guard, that's something they can actually check (maybe, Joe would know).  But assuming everything Alicia said was true and Cas is right about a cover-up, for what?
I could hear my footsteps all the way up the steps and down the hall, like there was an echo or something. She pulled the fire alarm; that thing is loud, and the older systems require a manual override to turn it off (or shoot it like a lot).  The halls were empty; there's no way all the medical staff could have been out that fast, much less the patients.  The women she saw outside the nursery were already dead; she didn't mention hearing gunshots.  The blood was already coagulated and that takes time; that sound when you move one that's stuck from that isn't something you ever forget. Even given years and what trauma does to memory, the timeline is off.
Dean isn't sure if it's a relief or not when Cas says, "Tell me the plan again, as you refer to it."
"I'll drive to the East Gate," Dean starts, feeling less than encouraged by Cas's phrasing.  "When I get there, Alicia will go out the West Gate and up to the ward line; her team will follow out of sight.  That should get Erica's attention."  
Cas nods politely. "And if it doesn't?"
Yeah, he doesn't like this part.  "I was thinking about that.  If she doesn't show, there's a Crossroad past the ward line--"
"At the bottom of the hill, about a mile from Ichabod," Cas interrupts smoothly.  "There's a farm road that crosses IH-Ichabod; I think we called it Point Zero, where the buses would let off their passengers for the walk to Ichabod.  A shelter was erected there."
He's already committed, so might as well go for it.  "Yeah."
"And there, I assume, she'll try and summon Erica," Cas muses.  "And hope she doesn't get another Crossroads demon, or Crowley himself.  Perhaps she can politely ask for Erica in that case?"
"Okay, yeah--"
"But assuming she does get Erica: her team will radio you with the hand units and you will go out the East Gate, proceed to the first Crossroad--roughly a mile and a half from Ichabod--in full sight of everyone with eyes--and summon Crowley," Cas continues.  "Or a demon--hopefully not one of Erica's companions or even Erica herself if Alicia bores her--who will agree to kindly go and fetch Crowley for you.  Then you will discuss your concerns with Crowley in a reasonable manner, and he'll helpfully take Erica and the others away.  Yes, this is indeed a plan which cannot fail."
He's committed to a shitty plan. "Fine, it's a bad plan, but it's pretty much all we got right now.  Unless you have a better idea?"
"You can't go alone," says the guy who ambled out to the Crossroad for a one-on-one chat with Crowley. I'll go with you--"
"No."
"Then you'll need two people for your escort: Amanda and Joseph." Dean--who was bracing himself for an argument--is left blinking in surprise.  "Amanda because she's our best hunter, Joseph because he's already proven he can easily pick you up and restrain you without very little effort no matter how much you struggle."
"Who told you--" Right.  "I told you."
"I received several colorful descriptions of events while I was--otherwise occupied," Cas says (read: screaming in agony).  "It's nearly time for your planned interruption of Amanda and Joe's interrogation of Micah.  Take Kamal with you to take their place, and bring them to the Situation Room so you can brief them." There's a brief pause.  "And Alicia, of course.  I'll meet you there in fifteen minutes.  I need to do--something."
"What--"  Cas is already off the bed before Dean realizes that, apparently, they're done.  "Cas, wait.  That's it?"
Cas turns to look at him in polite inquiry.  "Is there something else?"
Yeah, a lot, actually.  "Yeah.  I mean--" Fuck.  "I know I should have told you about Alicia before and not just dropped it on you like this."  Cas nods, waiting, and okay, what goes next?  He wishes Cas would give him something here: be pissed, ask why, maybe tell him about how you don't hide shit like this, but--nothing.  "I'm sorry about that."
"You had reasons to conceal it," Cas says, and he nods (it's true). "I assumed as much."
"Yeah, I did," he agrees. "So--I'm sorry."
"I understand."  Then turns toward the door again.

Going after Cas would have gotten me a bullet to the head on sight, do not pass go and talk about our feelings.

"Cas!"  His shoulders stiffen before he turns back around, and Dean can see his grip on the doorknob may end badly any second now.  "You're not gonna--" He wonders what's wrong with him; it's not like he wanted Cas to be pissed at him.  "The escort thing.  It's not that I don't want you there, but--"
"It's dangerous," he finishes for him.  "To preserve our command structure, both of us shouldn't be at risk.  That's only prudent.  I'll stay here, in our Headquarters, where it's safe."
Dean does, in fact, hear the irony loud and clear.  "Yeah."
"It's sensible," Cas agrees.  "I should have thought of that myself.  Is there anything else?"

I wouldn't have risked this if it was him here, but you...you're reasonable.

"Look, you have the right to be pissed--"
"Thank you."
"For fuck's sake," Dean snaps, getting to his feet. "I fucked up!  I know that!"
"Exactly what do you want from me?"  The cool curiosity in Cas's voice is worse than anger could ever be.  "You had reasons, presumably good ones, for your decision not to inform me that one of your lieutenants was involved in the assassination attempt on me and Vera."
"My lieutenants?" Dean echoes incredulously.
"Chitaqua's lieutenants, then," Cas corrects himself. "I told you I would accept your decisions, even if I didn't agree with them, provided you listened to my objections.  The latter doesn't apply in this case, but the former does and always will. Alicia is a superlative hunter and a very good team leader, both of which are very valuable to Chitaqua.  You said she's shown regret for her past actions, and she's certainly not a threat to anyone in the camp.  We don't have enough hunters as it is--"
"You think this is about Chitaqua?" Dean is on his feet before he realizes he's moved.  "I didn't tell you because end game is Lucifer and what's a little attempted murder, gotta keep my eye on the ball?"
Cas looks away, and to Dean's horror, his shoulders slump tiredly.  "No, I don't think that.  I apologize."
Sheer horror holds Dean immobile; Cas just apologized for him being an asshole.  "Cas, don't fucking apologize to me for my fuck up.  I should have told you."
"Yes, you should have, but this isn't the time to discuss it," Cas answers.  "If you want to attempt this, we must begin preparations immediately."
He wants to say no, but one glance at the doorknob tells him keeping him here won't help.  And fuck everything, he's right about the timing.  "Right," he says, swallowing hard at Cas's obvious relief.  "Later, okay?"
"As you wish," Cas agrees, opening the door, and like that, he's gone.
@@@@@@
--Day 157, continued--

Castiel doesn't have a clear goal--away from the room was his chosen destination, direction unimportant--but the sound of a raised voice makes him pause on the second floor.  Following it, he hesitates in front of the presumed door, then knocks politely.  It's only a moment before it opens to reveal Melanie, flushed and tense, short brown hair falling out of its clips. To his surprise, the only other occupant of the room is Sarah, seated cross-legged on a sleeping bag against the wall.  She looks tired, and there's a tightness around her eyes and mouth that tells him it's not entirely physical.  Yes, he knows that feeling very well.
"Hey," Melanie says in surprise. "Everything okay?"
"I was about to ask you the same question," he answers, regretting the impulse; both of them are experienced at being human and certainly don't need his help to arbitrate a private dispute. (For that matter, he didn't know that was actually possible with Sarah.)  "I don't mean to intrude.  I just...."
"He could probably could hear you in the hall," Sarah says neutrally.
"It'd be nice if people in the room could do that," Melanie says over her shoulder, and Castiel regrets heartily that he's become a person who is concerned about random voices in hallways.  When did that happen?  Why?  "You have a minute, Cas?  I could use a third party opinion."
Technically speaking, he does some minutes, yes.  "I suppose--"
"Come in," she says, stepping back invitingly.  "You, stay," she adds when Sarah starts to rise, and Sarah immediately sits back down as Melanie shuts the door. 
"I should get back--" Sarah starts.
"To Kat?" he asks, and Sarah nods shortly; now he understands his function, and it's an excellent one.  "Are Drew and Phil are with her?" She nods again.  "Then you have no reason to return at this moment."
"Thanks, Cas," Melanie says cheerfully.  "Have a seat."  At her gesture, he takes the far side of the sleeping bag facing Sarah, and Melanie lowers herself down beside him.  
"Melanie," Sarah starts, "I don't think this subject benefits from--"
"As long as there's a chance you may benefit from it, I'll talk until I lose my voice," Melanie interrupts caustically.  "You've been with her every second you're not on duty or forced leave. This has got to stop."
"Obviously my supervision is lacking," Sarah answers.  "Last night--"
"You're allowed to be tired!" Melanie says in exasperation.  "And to sleep.  And eat.  And not spend every goddamn second playing nursemaid for Kat!  For fuck's sake...."
"Sarah, it is not your responsibility to be Kat's full-time guardian," Castiel says.  "You're her team leader, not her mother or her keeper."
"I'm her friend," Sarah answers quietly.  She and Melanie and Kat have been roommates almost since they arrived at Chitaqua, but he didn't realize how close Sarah and Melanie were. For that matter, until he saw Sarah with Kat after Andy died, he wasn't sure she was close to anyone, or had any desire to be.  "I should have anticipated--"
"You're her friend," Melanie agrees, voice hard.  "But she sure as hell doesn't remember she's supposed to be yours.  If you're not going to listen to Drew--"
"He talked to you?" Sarah interrupts evenly.
"Yeah, he did," Melanie retorts. "He's worried about you, and so am I.  Kat doesn't want a friend; she wants a punching bag.  She knows Drew and Phil will tell her to fuck herself if she gets out of line; why do you think she wants you there all the time?"
"Sarah, is her behavior when Drew or Phil are present different from when she's alone with you?" Castiel asks, regretting he didn't question Sarah more closely on Kat's behavior before now.  "Did those who stayed with her yesterday report she was abusive?"  Sarah remains silent. "Melanie?"
"No, they didn't," she answers evenly.  "And she was sweet as fucking pie to fucking Carol.  Sarah, come on, she was over the line before she fucked with Alicia!  You don't shit on your friends just because they'll stand there and let you!"
"Drew was correct to speak to your friends, Sarah; you would do the same for Melanie if you felt any member of her team was taking advantage of her."
"You did do that, when David and I first got together," Melanie says, mouth softening.  "Remember?  By the way, David loved your version of 'bury you where no one will find your body if you fuck this up' speech."
Castiel just manages not to react, and Sarah's gaze snaps to him for a moment before returning to Melanie. "I didn't say--"
"You can make well-wishes sound like a death threat, don't even pretend," Melanie continues affectionately.  "My best friend had my back; you think I didn't appreciate knowing that?  Still do."  Her smile vanishes.  "You'd put them through a wall if someone was doing this shit to me, and you know it."
Sarah doesn't answer, which he assumes means that's true.
"David took the kids to the Volunteer Center for the afternoon," Melanie continues, relaxing. "Lyz has been wanting to get back to play with the kids at the YMCA--er, assist in organizing their daily structure something.  David and Danny pretend they're not into it, but whatever. So how about we--"
"So you both have some free time?" Castiel asks casually, and both look at him.  "A mission, I should say.  If you're interested."
"I like where this is going," Melanie says encouragingly. "Dangerous?"
"Of course."
"I'm in," she agrees, turning sideways in obvious anticipation, and if he's not mistaken, Sarah seems to brighten.
"Dean wants to do something stupid," he explains and is pleased to see understanding nods.  "He called it a plan."
"Read: suicidal," Sarah agrees.
"Supposedly, Alicia did the actual planning, such as it is." Sarah and Melanie look marginally comforted, and he truly hates to take that away from them.  "Her part is to confront Erica alone for distraction purposes, while Dean does the same with Crowley to get Erica and her minions to leave."
Both look at him, waiting for the part that would make this make sense.  Then Melanie says tentatively, "That--that's not...not the whole plan, right?"
"They think it is," he tells Melanie's face. "Worse, they believe it will work."
"Christ," she breathes.  "He infected our tactician?  Cas, no, we just found out what she could do!"
He lets out a relieved breath; so he's not the only one that noticed that.  "The problem is--"
"Where to imprison them until sense comes or the world ends?" Melanie asks sincerely.  "What about seeing if Ana can blow the lock on that other room in the basement?  It's a dungeon, guaranteed, I got money riding on this."
"Tempting, but no: if anyone can get Crowley to help us--or at least, spite Erica--it's Dean.  And Alicia can distract Erica enough to give him time to do it.  So with those two elements in place, I need an actual plan, one where both of them survive with all limbs and souls in place and that also works.  If that's even possible."
Sarah gets up, moves her sleeping bag closer, and sits down again.  "I wonder," she says thoughtfully, "how many Croats are still out there?"
Melanie nods.  "That's a good start."
"So, me and Sarah are the drivers," Melanie tells the table, composed of Dean, Joseph, Amanda, Sarah, Alicia, him, and herself, of course.  Perched on the chair by Sarah and opposite Alicia, Amanda, and Joe, she leans forward, indicating the map of Ichabod proper, the wall, and the hastily added ward line on the table between them.  "We're going to make it look like a patrol of the wall."
"We haven't been doing that before," Amanda argues.  "So why now?  Keep in mind, this is Erica; she knows us."
"She'll assume the partial truth; that we're looking for her and pretending it's just to exterminate the remaining Croats," Sarah answers.  "Until this morning, we didn't know she was still here; it's been just enough time for Dean to have called everyone together, met with his lieutenants and discussed options, and made a working plan. A patrol looking for her near the walls would be exactly what she expects."
"Predictable," Amanda says, glancing at Dean at the head of the table for his reaction, Castiel assumes.  "Not a bad thing in this case: it'd reassure her she's a mastermind of unparalleled cunning and everything.  What about the car graveyard north of the wall, though?  We're going to have to circle around past the ward line to get through parts of it."
"Croats cleared part of it themselves straight to the northwest postern door when they were chasing you," Melanie says.  "The rest--from what Gretch said when she scouted for Cas looking for Croats, there's some spots we'll need to circle around past the ward line, but it clears up again east of the North Gate, at least enough for a couple of jeeps."
"Good so far," Dean says.  "What else?"
"We'll send two jeeps--Mel and I in the first with you, Amanda, and Joe, and Mel's team in the second.  Two jeeps would be reasonable for a patrol like this; one to stay to deal with a threat and one to retreat back to the walls to get help quickly.  Go out the South Gate," Sarah explains, finger touching that point on the map, "and go clockwise, west to east." Her finger traces an uneven wave around the walls before coming to a stop at the eastern border of the ward line. "Just past the East Gate, we get an unexpected flat tire."
From the other side of Melanie, Castiel smiles in satisfaction; they'd accomplished a great deal during the ten minutes in their room, two minute walk to the Situation Room, and fourteen minute wait for Dean and the others to arrive.
"We let Joe, Amanda, and Dean out while we fix the tire," Melanie says, picking up from Sarah.  "Then we go back in the nearest gate, that being the East Gate--who wants to patrol with a flat tire?--and David finishes up the circuit at the South Gate and another team starts the route.  Me and Sarah wait there until you're done, and if anything goes wrong, we can get to you in under two minutes."
"We should start soon, however," Sarah says.  "This has to look genuine, so there should be at least two circuits by other teams before we go out and continue circuits until you are behind the walls again. Cas, when would be the best time for Dean to make the attempt?"
"Preferably well after full dark," he answers.  "It's not as if demons are more dangerous after dusk, and I'd prefer the cover of darkness.  The perimeter of Ichabod is roughly twenty-one miles, so each circuit should take roughly forty-five minutes to an hour and fifteen minutes to complete, depending on who's driving.  As the first team will also be mapping the route for us, it'll take them longer."
"How many circuits?" Amanda asks, peering down at the map.
"Ideally, four before Dean goes out, and as Sarah says, as many as needed until he returns," he answers.  "That will also assure that there's one mobile team already outside the walls should anything go wrong."
"Start with Ana's team," Amanda says promptly.  "They're off duty, and after dealing with Micah, they deserve the treat.  Haruhi's team can man the second jeep."
"Haruhi and Rosario are on assignment," he answers.  "Send Kara and her team."  He mentally opens Chitaqua's shift schedule.  "Sean's team will perform the second circuit, and Damiel and Lee should be off their shift on the wall by then and can take the third and fourth.  Alonzo's can go with Sean, Britney's with Damiel, and Travis and his team with Lee.  They've all fought demons, but I doubt Erica's minions will take the risk of doing anything but watch.  We'll repeat those as needed until Dean returns."
"If we're lucky, they'll try, though" Melanie says hopefully, and Sarah nods agreement, which is as good as someone else saying 'I wish to bury my knife in their writhing body and drink their still hot blood while laughing as they die'.  "I would pay literal money--if I had any--to get a bullet in Stan."
"Or Luke," Amanda murmurs, a ripple of something dangerous in her voice.
"Right," Joseph starts. "This sounds great--"
"It does," Castiel agrees.  "When Melanie and Sarah return inside the walls, they'll radio to tell us, and Alicia then goes out the West Gate--trying to appear surreptitious instead of actually being so--and her team will follow, doing a better job of being subtle."
"Where to?" Amanda asks.
"Past the ward line," Alicia answers, and Castiel wonders uneasily if anyone else notices how quiet she's been.  "The first Crossroad is Zero; if she doesn't show by the time I get there, I'll do a summoning."
Amanda frowns.  "You could get anyone, though."
"Erica's both the closest and the most motivated to appear," Castiel says.  "Erica manifesting first for Alicia considerably lowers the risk that when Dean performs a summoning at the Crossroad, she--or her companions--will appear."
"And we're that sure Crowley will show?"
"Pretty sure," Dean says, but something in his voice silences further questions.  "Okay, sounds good--"
"Except for the part where these circuits are going to get attention," Amanda interrupts.  "So there's good odds that when we're dropped off, someone is going to see us."
"I thought of that," Castiel says.  "To avoid that, I'm going to see if I can make all of you invisible."
Into the stunned silence, Amanda asks, "What?"
Castiel patiently waits out the exclamations of surprise and demands for explanation; he'd be happy to do the latter, but the former is making that impossible.  From the corner of his eye, he sees Dean hiding a grin and tries not to think anything of it.
"If you would like to know more--" Cas inserts into a brief lull and gets six pairs of eyes fixed on him for his trouble.  "Thank you.  If I may?"
"I hate you," Amanda says without heat, resting her elbows on the table and fixing him with a glare.  "Okay, spill.  Invisible?"
"Yes.  Or rather, practically invisible," he corrects himself.  "True invisibility is time consuming, complicated, requires a great deal of power, and is sometimes fatal to the corporeal form, and by that I mean, dissolves it from reality.  If I were an angel, of course, this wouldn't be a problem, but resurrection is more difficult these days--"
"Christ, you're enjoying this," Melanie says in admiration.  
"So, we'll work with what we have.  To wit: a set of sigils that influence the sensory perception of those in corporeal form.  They've been tested on both humans and demons, and with both they worked flawlessly.  However--"
"I want those yesterday," Amanda interrupts, sounding awed.  "Where'd you find them?"
Human curiosity: always so inconvenient.  "Well--"
"He made them up," Dean says lazily, mouth quirking, and Castiel feels himself flush beneath Dean's gaze.  
Amanda looks between him to Dean, unblinking.  "You made invisibility?"
"Technically," he tries, "you're not invisible--"
"You can't see someone, that's invisible," Melanie interrupts.  "Holy shit, Cas, you realize what we can do with this? Someone, make a list: first on it, everything."
"I suppose, yes," he agrees warily. "However, as I was saying--"
"You suppose?" Joseph bursts out, and Dean starts to laugh helplessly.  Dragging out a notebook, Joseph flips pages and unearths a pen from his jacket.  "Okay, tell me what they do, what they don't, everything you know: start now."
"We're still in the experimental stage," Dean says before Castiel can think of how to respond.  "Number of people affected doesn't seem to matter, definitely covers up to two senses without much problem--"
"Not just sight?" Amanda interrupts as Joe writes frantically.  "How many senses?"
"Simultaneously?" Castiel asks, and Amanda's mouth drops open.  "We've tested up to two, but it potentially affects all five."
"Wait a minute," Amanda says suspiciously.  "Tested.  Tested where?"
Dean sighs.  "Weird, I can't remember.  Fever, you know?"
"You didn't," Joseph says in alarm.  "You didn't--fuck my life, you did."
"In Chitaqua," Amanda moans, covering her face.  "You wandered around Chitaqua invisible?"
Dean doesn't seem inclined to answer, smiling at them winningly.
"We confirmed it can simultaneously affect both the visual and auditory spectrum," Castiel says, deciding perhaps it's time to return to the original subject; it can't be healthy for Joseph to be that color for very long.  "It was tested on members of the camp," he pauses to let Amanda moan in horror, "as well as Jeffrey."
Amanda and Dean both come to attention without seeming to do more than look at him.  "Jeffrey," she says softly.  "First date at the shooting range, yeah."
"We haven't tested anything beyond sight and sound," Castiel continues, suddenly remembering Dean's question about how it might feel to be touched by someone using the sigils.  "And for the most part, taste and smell are irrelevant, though we may now heartily regret the water restriction."
Amanda sits back with a thoughtful look.  "I'm hearing a 'but'."
"It was a 'however', and yes, there is one.  I designed them for Dean, and while they should work for anyone who wears them, that hasn't been tested."
"If me and Joe put them on now--"
"It won't work." Joseph pauses, pen at the ready.  "At least, not on anyone in this room at this moment.  There are restrictions, the most important is that this alters perception of reality, not reality itself.  If someone knows for certain you're there, the sigils have no effect." Looking at the ring of confused faces, he tries to think how to explain.  "It's--"
"A lie," Alicia says.  "It's like you walk up to someone looking at a tree and tell them it's not there: they're not going to buy it.  You want this to work, you gotta tell them the tree's not there before they look at it, am I right?"  He makes himself nod as he would to anyone who was correct in their assumptions.  "What's the command in the sigils? What are they telling us?"
"'Nothing there'," he answers evenly.
"Dissonance," she says with a flicker of satisfaction.  "Okay, I got this.  The sigils have to get in first.  You look at someone, the sigils say 'nothing there' at the same time.  Your eyes disagree--can't blame 'em, they're right, after all--and it's super annoying, so the brain has to make a judgment call.  The brain doesn't want to deal with the arguing, says 'fuck it' and pretends it's not happening, so 'nothing there' wins by default, am I right?"
He nods again; of course she'd understand.
"So you don't even notice anything happened," Alicia says, addressing the entire table.  "On a guess, two senses would be as much as you'd want to risk; higher than that, the brain gets curious why three senses are making it miserable and investigate, therefore discovering the sigils are lying and it stops working"
"Yes," Castiel says, repressing the unexpected urge to smile.  "Exactly."
"So how do we test it?" Amanda asks.
"Put them on you and Joe," Alicia says, a hint of amusement in her voice, "and go stare at Jeremy and Joelle at the front desk."
An ecstatic smile spreads across Amanda's face.  "This is gonna be great."
"Cas, you have a permanent marker?" Melanie asks as she gets to her feet and tugs Sarah up behind her.  As Castiel goes to retrieve it from his supplies, she tells Amanda, "Strip down.  We gotta work out where to put it."
When he returns, Amanda has already discarded her flannel and thermals, and after a murmured consultation with Melanie, her tank top as well, revealing the smooth black lines of her sports bra. As she sits backward on her chair, Castiel observes the lines of scars, old and new, on her back and waist, ridges vanishing beneath the waist of her heavy cargo pants, searching automatically for any new problem areas since the last time he checked her.  Scar tissue can thicken over time and cause various issues if left unchecked.  Scar reconstruction as performed by a plastic surgeon is impossible, but there are other ways to deal with anything that might impede use of their body.  
"Legs?" Sarah asks dubiously.
"Not for something like this." Crouching, she examines Amanda's back.  "She needs to be able to get to it fast in case she needs to de-activate or reactivate it on the fly. Or someone else doing it for her if she's injured: last thing we need is a ritual striptease during or after a fight."
"Actually...." Amanda starts, twisting around to grin at Melanie's warning glare.  "Fine, just saying, I'm not opposed.  For justice."
Rolling her eyes, Melanie rests her hand just below the sports bra on Amanda's back.  "Arms in position, run through all five for me," she says, and Amanda stretches her arms above her head, then at forty-five degrees, then straight out on either side, then down at her sides.  Melanie frowns, spreading out her fingers, feeling the shift of muscle carefully. "Okay, swing up to midpoint in front of you, then up above your head, and then down.  Then repeat from the top."
 Melanie skims up and then down on the second repetition, stopping short of the small of Amanda's back, then back up just above her natural waist.  "Here," she says, looking at Sarah, who frowns and nods reluctantly.  "How much room do they need?"
"Six sigils, so about six inches," Dean says.  "I can get it down to three."
"Good enough.  If this were a tattoo or a brand, I'd say your ass," Melanie says to Amanda, "but sitting might rub even permanent marker off."
"You just want to see my ass again," Amanda mocks over her shoulder.
"It's a nice ass," Melanie retorts. "I had fun with it.  Sarah?"
"Friction might be a problem," she says slowly, tilting her head. "But all those layers should protect it if she's grabbed.  Cas, do you need to touch the skin to activate or deactivate it or is pressure in the area enough?"
"It requires direct skin contact," he answers, but he finds himself thinking about the possibility of activation that could be done through clothing, or even discarding touch altogether. "Even one layer of clothing is adequate as a barrier."
"And anyone can break if they touch or erase it, not just the person who drew it, or is it restricted?"
Dean bites his lip. "Anyone, yeah.  With rubbing alcohol, believe it or not."
"Good," Melanie says.  "Amanda, touch here, all five fingers, palm, wrist, then flip to back of your hand, back of your wrist, left, then right: go."  Amanda reaches back obediently, skimming Melanie's hand as directed first with her left, then her right.  "Perfect."
"So I feel stupid," Dean murmurs ruefully in his ear, and Castiel almost jumps; he didn't realize Dean was that close.  "Me, I just did it on my arm and called it a day. Where anyone--no names--could rub some alcohol on it anytime they wanted."
Dean's faint, reminiscing smile stops the caustic question on his presumed regret before it reaches his lips.
"Cas?" Amanda says hopefully as Joseph, who apparently gave up trying to decide if he's allowed to look, comes over to join Sarah.  Alicia, however, seems content to stay in her chair, and he sees Dean glance over at her before turning back to Amanda.  "I'm ready."
"Give me that," Dean says, taking the marker and going to join them. "Hold still."
"Look at that," she says, crossing her arms over the back of the chair and resting her chin on them disconsolately.  "Now you remember testing."
"Might remember something," Dean tells her as he takes Melanie's place and drops into an easy crouch.  "Might not; wanna find out?"
Amanda twists around to look horrified in Dean's direction before settling again, holding still as Melanie frames the ideal area for Dean.  Uncapping the marker, Dean sketches the six sigils with the easy expertise of someone who drew them on himself many times, and who thought--at least for a little while--that Castiel wished him to become a still-living ghost.
Sitting back on his heels, Dean checks it again, then glances at Castiel, and he suddenly remembers lounging on the couch in his cabin, an empty line of shots on the floor and a joint in his hand, with Dean standing before him.  He watched Dean strip off his shirts before taking Castiel's joint and replacing it with a marker; his protest ended when Dean knelt before him, and he drew the six sigils for the first time on the bare expanse of his arm.
Dean smiles at him, small and private, as if he knows what Castiel's thinking.  "Cas?  How are they?"
"Perfect," he says softly. Dean ducks his head, cheeks faintly pink, and he's almost overcome with the impulse to taste growing heat beneath his skin.
Distantly, he hears Melanie say, "Uh, are they--"
"Yeah, they are," Amanda answers in resignation.  "They do that now.  Just roll with it; at least no one's getting hit with sweatshirts."  Dean snorts as he gets up.  "So just touch it to activate?" 
"To activate it, touch it and say, Par bolape umd gono," Castiel answers.  "To end it, finis."
"First part's Enochian," Joseph says, sounding intrigued. "Why Latin at the end, though?"
"Enochian has no concept of 'ending' as such.  Nothing ever ends, so we don't need it."
Joseph looks pained.  "Something tells me if I question that, I'm going to get a headache."
"I'm getting one trying to imagine the conversation," he admits.  "If it helps, angels are infinite, immortal, and exist out of time; 'end' is...generally interpreted as 'not now'--for value of 'now' when time doesn't have any particular meaning--or 'interruption'."  Joseph rubs his forehead. "Brief interruption.  Like a hiccup."
"It doesn't help," Joseph says, starting to tug off his sweater. "So this is me, not thinking about it.  Same place as Amanda's?"
"I think so, but let me check," Melanie says, waiting until he's removed sweater, thermal, and tank top and sitting before checking the broad expanse of his back.  Resting her hand between his shoulder blades, she frowns, eyes distant.  "Okay, same as Amanda: start now." As Joe repeats Amanda's movements, Melanie runs her hand down his back and then back up, pausing just above where she'd stopped on Amanda.  "Here. Sarah?"
"That will work," she answers, nodding at Dean, who carefully sketches the six sigils where Melanie indicates.
When he's done, Castiel comes up beside him, nodding at his glance.
"All done," Dean says, slapping Joe's shoulder as he stands up.  "Get dressed and have fun in the lobby.  It's fun, trust me."  Amanda checks herself tugging her tank top over her head to give Dean a horrified look.  "Mel, pick up Ana's and Sean's teams on the way back; we'll brief them now and get them out there."
"Got it," she says, waiting impatiently for Amanda and Joseph to finish dressing with an anticipatory look.  "Let's check this out."
After they all return ("That was weird," Amanda says, looking happy and unnerved. "I even got behind Jeremy and said 'boo!'.  Nothing."), Ana's and Sean's teams are both briefed, and Joseph goes to update Alison while Amanda returns to the interrogation room to relieve Kamal from Micah-sitting duty.  So far, any effort to elicit information has been a failure.
("It's possible he doesn't know anything," Joseph told them with a shrug.  "Erica isn't stupid; she wouldn't tell him any more than she needed to."
"He's too smug," Amanda says.  "He knows something."
"Smug," Joseph stated, "is his default setting.  Before you wonder if I'm being naïve, I'm saying, Micah knows that what he doesn't know, he can't tell.")
With Dean is done with them, Castiel takes Sean's team aside to explain their future duties with Alison. As he suspected, Sean's team--having been Alison's escort multiple times--is exactly as sympathetic as he hoped.  
"Yeah, no shooting her," Sean says blankly.  "She actually thought we would?"
"I assumed it was a human thing," Castiel explains. "So some of you are sane and don't believe you should be shot for no particular reason?"
"More sane," Tara corrects him with a sigh, hand coming up to smooth over her hair, an old habit, he suspects.  Unlike most at Chitaqua, she keeps her tightly curled black hair cut very short, a frame for her sharp features and dark brown skin. "I'm guessing knocking her out would be a bad idea?"
"She requires consciousness to maintain control," he answers regretfully.  "You have your orders; if you have questions while on duty, come and ask me; there are literally no stupid questions when dealing with a powerful, somewhat cranky psychic with a taste for self-sacrifice."
"When do we start?" Sean asks.
"Two hours before dawn." He looks them over critically and reviews their schedule over the last three days. "After you return from your circuit of the city, eat and then go to bed.  All of you will need to be at your most alert tomorrow; Alison, depressingly, is only one of the many ways we could die."
"Pool's got us at sixty-nine to survive until the barrier's up," Lena offers.  "So, not bad."
"Put me down for survival, if you would," Castiel says, and Lena brightens, removing a small notepad from her jacket and flipping it open.  "Make sure and be at the South Gate in thirty minutes, however; Ana's time to drive the perimeter is naturally going to be the longest, and I'd like yours to be ten to fifteen minutes shorter for variation."
"She leaving us any Croats?" Kim asks hopefully, twisting the end of her brown ponytail. "One or two?"
"We'll hope for the best.  Is there anything else?"  They all shake their heads. "You're dismissed."
Castiel watches Sean and his team depart, noting in satisfaction their ease with each other has increased dramatically.  Dean's discipline requiring them to be in constant proximity to each other seems to have had a beneficial effect on their unity instead of the reverse. He watches approvingly as Tara comes up beside Sean, obviously to discuss the mission, and suspects that--provided Dean decides to let him retain this team--Tara will be his official second, something Sean has neglected to see to until now.
Joining Dean, he hears Ana say, "--wait outside for Natalie and Evelyn; they'll bring the jeeps"
"Dismissed," Dean says, nodding before turning his attention Sarah and Melanie. "All right, we good?"
"I'll go brief my team so they'll know where I'll be," Sarah says, not looking at Melanie.  "Talk to Kat a little.  It might help her to know that we're going after the person who caused Andy's death."
Melanie and Dean both hide their skeptical expressions remarkably well.  "Mel?"
"I'm going to get my kids from the YMCA," she says, turning to Sarah. "I'll walk you up; I need to grab something from my room."
When they're gone, Alicia reluctantly gets to her feet and looks at Dean.  "Should I get my team now, or--"
"No," Dean tells her.  "I'll tell 'em when they get back, no worries."
"Is there a reason you can't tell them yourself when they return?" Castiel asks, keeping his voice carefully even.
She can't seem to meet his eyes.  "Dolores asked for help in the infirmary.  Since it's still a few hours until we start and they're pretty overwhelmed, I thought I'd go and see what I can do."
"You don't have to," Dean says quietly, and Castiel just stops himself from reminding her that duty takes priority over leisure.  "I told Dolores I'd talk to you, but that's it."
"I want to," she says, but even he can hear the lie. "They need the help."
Dean sighs. "Dolores said to tell you not to worry, and also, Karl wants to hug you."  Her mouth twitches.  "Any problems, come back, okay?"
"Thanks," she says, nodding. "When should I--"
"I'll come and get you when it's time," Castiel interrupts.  "You're dismissed."
Alicia nods shortly to them both, going out the door without another word.  As soon as the door is closed, Dean looks at him, and belatedly, Castiel realizes they're alone.  Again.
"I need to get something from my--our room," he says abruptly; at least it has the advantage of being true.  He doesn't wait to see if Dean argues the point, and Castiel keeps his mind carefully blank as he goes out into the lobby, nodding politely at Jeremy's smile and Joelle's wave and takes the stairs two at a time.  
Too quickly: when he reaches the landing, he sees Alicia half-way down the left hall on her way to the back stairs,  He starts to turn down the right one when a sense of motion makes him pause, and Kyle abruptly emerges from the one of the rooms directly into Alicia's path.
"Alicia," he says urgently, jumping back when Alicia almost runs into him.  "I need to talk to--"
"Not the time," she says thickly, dodging around him.  
As she passes Kyle, his urgent expression turn into a frown, and he reaches out, grabbing her arm.  "Alicia, would you just listen to me?  You owe me that much!"
She stills. "Let go of me."
"Not until you--"
Alicia pivots, ducking under Kyle's arm and twisting it up behind him before turning him and shoving him face first against the wall while her left hand drops, fisting briefly just short of the hilt of her knife.  Instead, she braces that arm across his shoulders and kicks his legs apart, throwing his balance off.  Kyle's not usually this careless; even if Alicia's better, he thinks it says a great deal that Kyle's reflexive response isn't to respond to her as an adversary and threat until it's far too late.
"You touch me again," Alicia says, "you lose that hand.  Do we understand each other?"
Belatedly, Kyle attempts to use his greater strength, and this time, Alicia pulls her knife, the flat of the white blade touching his carotid; she doesn't have to do more than turn her wrist for the razor-edge to open it to the shoulder, and he'd bleed out before they could even begin to stop the bleeding.
Kyle, not being entirely stupid, stills.  "Do we," she asks again, "understand each other?"
"Yes," he grinds out.  Alicia holds him for another moment, then steps back.  Warily, Kyle turns around, eyes dropping from her face to her hand and swallowing as she flips the knife.  "Got it."
"Good," she says with a meaningless smile, and sheathing her knife, she starts back down the hall.  There's an actual concern he may try to follow her, and Castiel only debates for a moment before deciding that there's no reason to risk lethal bloodshed at this moment, tempting though it may be.
"Kyle," he says before he can decide suicide is the greater part of valor.
"Cas." He lets out a breath.  "You saw that?" Castiel nods the obvious answer, and Kyle sighs.  "Look, she was just--upset, I don't know, she gets like this.  I'm not filing a complaint or anything--"
"You're not joking, are you?" By Kyle's baffled frown, that would be no.  "I'd take your hand just on the off-chance you might use it to touch her--or anyone else--if you give me an excuse, any excuse whatsoever. That's what humans do to children, correct?  Take things away from them when they misuse them?"
Kyle looks shocked.  "What--"
"You are already under restriction for stalking and harassment," he continues, wondering if--by some impossible chance--this wasn't clear.  "I'm both willing and eager to add assault."
"I wasn't assaulting her!" he protests.  "I just wanted to talk to her!"
"She isn't required to listen."
"Look, it's about her going after Erica," Kyle says urgently.  "Cas, no matter what Dean says, you can't let her do it!"
Castiel watches the color drain from his face as he realizes what he just said.  "We should talk," he says, gesturing toward Kyle's room. "You can start with telling me how you know anything about it."
After twenty minutes, Dean acknowledges that Cas probably isn't coming back until it's time for him to leave for the patrol, or--possibly--until he's already gone.  Welcome back Cas's disappearing act; didn't miss that shit at all.
Unbidden, the memory of Cas's face when he told him about Alicia flashes across his mind; it was there and gone--Cas learned how to hide what he feels in the same school Dean did--but it was everything Dean was afraid of.  Chest tight, he fights the urge to reach up and rub it; even now, if he could have thought of a way around telling Cas, he knows he would have done it.  It was his fuck-up, yeah, but one he'd do again without hesitation if it meant sparing Cas that.
His fuck up, though, and that means he doesn't even have the right to comfort him; get him coffee and tuck him into bed (since they don't have a couch here, at least in their room), get some cards or dice or a chessboard or something (he'll even let Cas bring his laptop to bed in this one never to be repeated special occasion) and let Cas have his head.  Surrealist conversation, he can do that; meandering historical anecdotes with startling (if not always entirely clear) relevance to their lives, he can do that, too; raid Cas's stash, roll him a couple of joints, get some tortillas, and make a night of it, he's in.  
Dean stretches his right hand warily, searching for that feeling of something there, and is rewarded with a dull throb that warns him he's fucking up Cas's work last night.  Collapsing back into the couch, he just stops himself from rubbing it against his knee;  at this rate, he's going to need to learn how to patch his jeans.
There's a sudden knock on the door, Kamal's head peeking in. "You have a minute?"
"Yeah," he says in resignation. "What's up?
"Micah wants to talk to you."
Following Kamal down the stairs, Dean gets caught up on events.
"He kept asking for Alicia," Kamal explains as they reach the bottom and make a right, passing the door leading to the (empty) swimming pool and gym.  "Every ten minutes, almost like clockwork."
"He wants to fuck with her," Dean answers.  "And therefore fuck with us."
"Yeah, that's what I thought," Kamal agrees as they reach the end of the hall and make a right.  Mark and Gary are standing on either side of their brand new interrogation room, looking bored enough to start a war just to get some variety. He's got to admit, it's not exactly inspiring as halls go; maybe he should suggest they bring a book.  "But I'm not sure about that anymore.  At least, that's not the only reason."
"Dean," Gary says when he sees them, straightening abruptly to something that looks painful while Mark bites back a grin.  
"Guys," Dean says solemnly.  "So, what's up?"
"Nothing much," Gary says, somehow--impossibly--straightening even more, and Mark gives Dean a look that asks if he really wants such an easy target.  "Just--you know."
Dean nods, carefully not smiling as he follows Kamal to the TV room (ridiculously large repurposed coat closet?).  A glance at the screen shows Amanda looking unimpressed and Micah, annoyed, but--and he could be wrong--also a lot less smug.
"He's asking for me?"
Kamal nods reluctantly.  "He's been asking for Alicia since we brought him down, said he wouldn't answer anything until he talked to her.  We figured we'd wait him out, but--Dean, he's definitely worried about something.  If he's willing to talk to you, might as well try."
Right.  "Turn off the cameras." Kamal looks dubious. "Not gonna beat him up, come on--"
"Uh," Kamal starts.
"Or get beat up by him, Jesus," Dean adds when he doubles down on the dubious. "I'll yell for help, okay?"
"You better," Kamal says darkly, flipping them off, and the screen goes to noise.  "I'll be right outside the door, and you're armed, right?"
"Cas checked me this morning," Dean says viciously, enjoying Kamal's pained look.  "Personally."
"Fuck you," he says with a sigh.  "Let's get this over with."
Dean enters the interrogation room, nodding at Amanda as he sits down.  "You wanted to see me?"
"Alone," Micah says flatly.
Dean exchanges a look with Amanda, and she tilts her head. "I could use some coffee."
Translation: I'll be right outside and God help you if you get injured before I can kill him.
"Grab me some," he says as she gets up, turning her back on Micah and going out the door. Which--this being Amanda--is as good as saying Micah's as dangerous as a puppy.  Then again, compared to Amanda, everyone is as dangerous as a puppy.
"So, you wanted me?" Dean asks, slumping back in his chair, suddenly, viscerally aware that the man across from him used to beat Alicia.  There's a faint, unmistakable tension running through him, and the sulky mouth is too tight, lips nearly white.  He's definitely worried about something, but on a guess, not that he's been outed as what he really is; Dean's hunted monsters all his life, and it's not like some of them didn't look human, too.
"Erica wants my wife."
"Alicia," Dean corrects him.  "You called me down here to tell me three year old news?  Really?"
"My deal with Erica," Micah says. "You guessed I made one; I did.  Straight trade--I give her Alicia, she releases me from the contract."
Dean stares at him, at a loss for words; it's not like he didn't think just that, but the way Micah says it....  Like she's a pair of boots, a used coat: like she's something and not someone.
"It was a mistake," Micah continues hurriedly.  "I--I was angry, I hadn't seen her in years--for fuck's sake, she tried to murder me in our cabin!"
"I haven't been to law school," Dean says evenly, not entirely truthfully (and wasn't that a shitty fucking job), "but I don't think it's murder when it involves self-defense."  
Micah surprises him; he tries on 'regret' and almost manages to pull it off.  "I made mistakes during our marriage, I don't deny it--"
"Spousal abuse isn't a mistake; it's a fucked-up lifestyle choice," Dean interrupts, pushing back his chair. "Look, I got some important trying not to die shit to do, so--"
"Wait!" Dean pauses.  "Erica was obsessed with my wife--"
"Alicia," he interrupts quietly.  "Her name is Alicia."
Micah's jaw tightens.  "Erica was obsessed with her, almost from the beginning. She tried to take her from me any way she could...look, you can't let Alicia outside the walls while Erica's here.  She'll do anything--and I do mean anything--when she realizes that I'm not giving her Alicia."
"You'd know," Dean says pleasantly.  "She used you to get Alicia last time, didn't she?"
Micah looks like he wants to argue, but the guy has some sense, after all; he keeps his mouth shut.
"So before I go--you have any idea what she's going to do if you don't deliver?  Besides come after you at the next opportunity, of course."  Micah's expression doesn't change.  "By the way, what are you going to do when this is over?"
"I still have years on my contract," Micah answers.  "Erica can't--"
"Erica's the least of your problems," he interrupts.  "The one thing she can't do is kill you herself, not without voiding the contract."
Micah frowns.  "Then what--"
"I can, though."
Micah rolls his eyes.  "Yeah, got it, I'm scared--"
"This isn't a threat," Dean says, strolling around the table.  "It's a preview of coming events.  When this is over, you don't have years; you have exactly as much time as it takes to get you outside Ichabod's walls.  Then I'm coming after you."
Micah snorts.  "You're not going to kill me, Dean.  Chitaqua's rep is bad enough; you really want to add murder to the charges?"
"How is anyone going to find out?" Dean leans back against the edge of the table, itching right hand braced on the smooth surface between them.  "Not like I'm going tell anyone, and who's going to care anyway?  Carol's dying, your buddies are MIA, and Alicia probably wants you dead more than I do."
Micah expression flickers.  "Then why not give me to Erica now?"
"How long was Alicia trapped in that cabin with you beating her to get her to say yes?"
"I don't remem--" 
Dean closes his left hand around Micah's neck and slams him face down onto the table.  Getting a handful of hair, he jerks Micah's head up and rests the flat of his knife against his neck.
"Make one sound and I'll cut your throat here and now," he says pleasantly, and Micah chokes back the burgeoning scream.  "Cameras are off; you attacked me and I had to defend myself.  If anyone asks, I mean, and honestly?  No one will.  Now, answer me: how long?"
"Erica made me--"
Dean slams his head into the table with a sound like a watermelon splitting; he likes it enough to do it again.  When he pulls Micah's head up, blood, tears, and snot are smeared across his face from his broken nose.  "How long?"
Micah spits out blood.  "You can't just--"
"Wrong answer."  Shoving Micah back onto the table, Dean punches through his back, shattering the spine and splintering his ribs before closing his hand around the warm, wet meat of his still-beating heart.  "No screaming," Dean murmurs against his ear, and watches in satisfaction as Micah's lips seal shut, eyes bulging.  "Last chance, sweetheart: how long?"
Micah cheeks puff helplessly, screams trapped behind sealed lips.  Horror-filled eyes stare at him until his lips part on a wet gasp. "Twelve.  Twelve days."
"Twelve days," Dean says.  "That's how long it's gonna take you to die.  And that's when it really starts; you owe me for Cas, and paying that just might take forever." He leans closer.  "You hear that?"  Whimpering, Micah nods against the wood.  "You know what it is?  Say it."
"Screaming," he whispers, eyes squeezed shut. "Please, Dean--"
"You're going to hear that until I come for you," Dean says, pulling his hand out and flipping his knife before cutting Micah's throat in a fountain of glistening red.  The room is filled with the muffled, wet sounds of Micah  choking airlessly on his own blood, long after anyone else would have the mercy of death.  "Then all you're gonna hear are your own."
Stepping back, he tosses Micah back in his chair.  Micah reaches behind him, frantically touching the expanse of unmarked wool, then the bare skin of his throat, still whole, looking down in horrified confusion at the rumpled, bloodless sweater and jeans.  
"What...." He fixes his eyes on Dean, glassy with terror. "Who are you?"
"See you soon," he says with a grin, adding just before he snaps his fingers, "Promise."
When Dean opens the door, he's not entirely surprised to see Amanda and Kamal practically plastered to the frame while Mark and Gary try and look casual about hovering right behind them.  
"Done," he says blandly.  "Still alive.  In case you were wondering."
Amanda rolls her eyes before frowning; following her gaze, Dean realizes he's rubbing his right hand against his upper thigh.  "Arm bothering you?"
He starts to deny it, then gives up. "Just cramps," he answers, feeling a shock of pain when he tries to flex it.  "Used it too much the last few days, I guess."  
"What is that?" Micah says abruptly from behind him, sounding--weird.
Dean turns around, startled by the change in his appearance; sitting rigidly straight in his chair, Micah's face is bleached to a sickly grey, and even from here, he can see he's shaking, hands clasped on the table and flexing endlessly.  "What?"
Micah lifts his head, eyes weirdly glassy.  "That--you can't hear it?"
"Hear what?" she asks impatiently.
"It's like--"
Screaming.  
"--I don't know," Micah whispers, eyes darting to Dean again and fixing for a moment before he looks away, hand going to his throat and smoothing over the skin like he's looking for something. "I want to see Alicia."
Dean feels the hilt in his hand; he can't stop.
"Right," Amanda says with a sigh, reaching to shut the door.  "So, you get anything?"
"His soul for Alicia," Dean says distractedly.  "See if you can get anything else, I gotta--gotta do something."
When he gets to the empty Situation Room, he goes straight to the bathroom and makes for the taps, relieved to discover they work in here, at least.  Turning on the hot water, he shoves his right hand under the icy spray, eyes closed until he's breathing steam but somehow, it never gets any warmer.
When he opens his eyes, he sees a familiar, green-eyed stranger holding a knife under the steaming tap.  Written on the blade are words formed from his own agonized screams: this is my name.
"What the hell--"
Jerking his hand from under the tap, he frantically tries to turn off the faucet with his left hand and hisses at the sprinkle of burning heat from the water.  When he looks again, the mirror's steamed over entirely; he can't see a thing.
When he leaves the bathroom, he almost runs into Cas, apparently waiting for him just outside the door.
"Hey," he says, hoping he doesn't sound too surprised (nothing he can do about the relief; that seems to come through loud and clear). "Uh, you--"  He takes in Cas's expression.  "What happened?"
"Kyle was listening at the door during your conversation with Alicia.  At least until Jeremy arrived; then he hid in the office of wrong next door."
It's only when he's jerked to a stop that he realizes that he's halfway to the door; he's hit his limit on assholes for the day.  "Cas--"
"He thinks that Micah made a deal with Erica to get her Alicia," he says, leading Dean to the couch and not gently pushing him down on it before taking a chair between him and the door.  "Dean?"
"He was right," he answers flatly.  "Micah gets Alicia for her, and she breaks his contract."
Cas raises an eyebrow.  "So his warning to her was indeed genuine: seller's remorse, I assume. I wouldn't have thought he was capable of it."
Dean thinks about the inflection in Micah's voice when he said my wife. "He said he did it before he saw her again, the night after he and Carol got here."
"Probably with the help of the idiots two.  Stephen and Barney," Cas clarifies when Dean gives up trying to remember their names.  "We keep forgetting them, but then again, it's not like they're easy to remember."
"What about them? They're still bravely hiding somewhere north of Fifth."
"I dislike having this many variables without a single constant," Cas explains, which he translates to 'no fucking clue what's going on and this is bullshit'. Yeah, Dean's with him there.  
"What I'm not getting is why Erica agreed to this trade in the first place."  Cas raises his eyebrows.  "I mean, I get it; she's a demon and Alicia's the soul that got away because Erica had something like feelings about her.  But a soul in the hand's worth--you know."
"She wanted to take her," Cas says. "It was 'feelings' only so far as that the reason that she didn't was because she didn't want to pull the trigger when Alicia said no.  This is Erica, after all; I doubt that inhibition would have lasted much past my death, and I have no doubt she would have used Alicia's guilt as well."
"So what's changed since then, you mean?"
"Several things, not least of which is that Erica is now a Crossroad demon, and as a group, they don't think there's anything that can't be bought.  But even as a human, Erica wasn't one to take unnecessary risks, hence the 'bullet to the head' method of persuasion.  Considering her master plan was overwhelming us with a ridiculous number of Croats just to get a Hellhound inside Ichabod, that seems to continue to be true."
"That wasn't a good plan."
"The only good plans are those that work," Cas retorts.  "If it had--and I remind you, it very nearly did--it would have been brilliant.  Especially for Erica."
You send Erica when you want to win and don't care how.  How much she knows about what's happened in Ichabod is up in the air, but demons can smell when someone's desperate, and she knows Alicia.  "We can't send Alicia out there."
Cas raises his eyebrows. "Why not?"
"Why not?" Dean exclaims guiltily. "Because--look, it's a shitty idea.
"It is, but it's also all we have.  Without Alicia's participation, this plan--as we must refer to it, for lack of a more accurate term--is officially non-existent."
"What's the worst that could happen?" Dean asks (the stupidest question in the world).  "Erica shows up, makes fun of us, and leaves.  She won't kill me, Cas; you heard her."
"I'm not worried about her killing you," Cas answers.  "I'm worried she'll kidnap, mutilate, and torture you until you wish you were dead but without any risk of actually causing your death.  Dean, you only have to be alive to keep the status quo, and breathing and a heartbeat are all that's required." 
Chilled, he's reminded suddenly it's not just his own memories that Cas has; he's got all the shit Crowley shoved in there, too.  He probably knows--as well as Dean does (if not better, not like angels were above that kind of thing)--how much a human body can go through and survive.  
"If we're fortunate, she'll eventually ask for a trade so we can get you back," Cas says quietly.  "If we're not--"
"No one," Dean interrupts, "is gonna fucking deal for me."
"--we'll have to summon her and beg for the privilege of making a deal on any and every term she desires."  Cas's eyes meet his.  "That is the only way this story will end."
Dean wets his lips and distantly recognizes Cas is maybe the only person who can make 'saving you from hell on earth' sound like the threat it is.  "Got it."
"Good," Cas says with a smile that reminds Dean of a much crazier pre-confronting Lucifer Cas in all the wrong ways: insouciant, indeed.  "Alicia's participation is mandatory; if you don't want her to go, then we don't have a plan or even the substances from which plans can be made."
"And you're okay with that?" It's on the tip of his tongue to ask Cas if Alicia's soul's a fair exchange for that night at his cabin, but for once, sheer horror catches up in time to cram the words back down his throat.  It's not Cas he should be asking that question; it's himself.  "If Erica tries to make a deal with Alicia--"
"Alicia won't take it."
Christ.  "Everyone's got a price."  And it's not like Alicia doesn't have a lot of reasons to be tempted, especially now.
"Everyone has a price," Cas agrees. "But not everyone can be bought.  Whether they want to be or not."
He just stops himself from flinching.  "You really believe that?"
Cas raises an eyebrow.  "Yes."
"I don't regret it," Dean says abruptly, not sure why he needs to say that.  "Making a deal for Sam."
"If you could, you wouldn't be you."  He's still circling that statement warily when Cas adds, "That's irrelevant, in any case.  Alicia can't be bought."
"Does she know that?"
Cas shrugs.  "If she tries to make a deal, she will, very quickly. I suspect Erica won't take that well, so it would be best to bring Crowley to agreement very quickly, if possible."
Dean's suddenly reminded of learning all about the Road Coloring Theorem when Cas was explaining how it related to the most recent reorganization of their pantry, except the (horrifying) part where he understood after Cas assembled a model of the goddamn thing with toothpicks.  This--he's not sure what to do with it.
"Look, it's not that I don't believe you here--" he starts.
"In other words, you don't."
"--but come on, there's still a risk!"
"There's always a risk," Cas says dryly.  "In this case, however, Alicia would have to lose her mind, and insanity invalidates any attempt at contract.  It's understandable after what Alicia told you that you're sympathetic--"
"She didn't tell me just to get my sympathy," Dean interrupts and immediately regrets it; Cas's expression goes blank, probably at the reminder that Dean spent two days protecting one of the people who tried to murder him before hearing all the messy details, and by the way, another one of them's in the interrogation room, both very much alive and not exactly paying for their crimes.  He's really raising the standard for bad boyfriend and partner, but hey, at least he's not beating the shit out of Cas every day and making him think he deserves it.  So, better than Micah.  Maybe.
"Dean, if you'll stop being defensive--"
"I'm not being defensive!" Dean snaps defensively.  "I'm saying, I don't think she's fucking with me--us--as a get-out-of-attempted-murder card!"
And that, kids, is how you double down when it comes to stupid.  They're about five seconds from Cas finding something perfectly legitimate to do and walking away, and worse, he gets how easy he's getting off.  Cas of even four months ago would have walked out without bothering to make even a minimum effort to make Dean feel less shitty about it.
"I said I'd believe her," Dean says abruptly, fixing his gaze on the wall behind Cas's shoulder.  "I told her if she told me what really happened, whatever she said, I'd believe her."  Not liking who you are--hating it--isn't easy to fake, and impossible with someone who hasn't seen it, much less lived it.
"I understand."  Risking a glance, he sees Cas relax.  "There is something missing, though the exact number is something of a question.  What I'm not sure of is why."
"How many...what?"
"Hours," he replies absently.  "At least seven, but possibly as many as twelve, as the CDC hadn't arrived yet.  Assuming the hospital was aware of the protocol for suspected Croatoan--the alarm makes me suspect they were, to get the key employees out and safe before formal quarantine was established--the FBI, the National Guard, and the CDC would have been informed within an hour of confirmation, which is usually within two hours of formal quarantine.  How on earth she got past the National Guard--possibly twice--is a mystery, but if she knew the hospital--"
"Wait," Dean interrupts. "Go back: seven to twelve hours?  At the hospital?"  Cas nods.  "Where are you getting that?"
"According to Alicia, the first child was born at eight thirty-eight that morning and the last just after three. It was roughly an hour later when Alicia heard the alarm; that's consistent with the manifestation of the first child."  
"So she heard it, went to the nursery--"
"In a deserted hospital, after procuring drugs from one of the open, abandoned cabinets and carrying cyanide and a sledgehammer?" Cas asks.  "That wasn't impulse, that was a plan, and a good one; it worked.  Dean, she said she'd never seen a case of Croat before, and even if she lied about everything else, I'd believe that without question.  That was the first time that alarm had been used, her supervisor had just told her about it.  Why would she go to the nursery to kill children infected with something she didn't believe existed?"
Dean shuts his mouth.  "The bodies of those women...."
"They'd been dead several hours from her description of coagulation," he answers. "Unless there were National Guard units in the hospital already when the alarm went off--and why would there be?--it was at least three to five hours at minimum after the alarm that the National Guard arrived; doubtless the hospital delayed as long as they could to assure the chosen medical employees escaped.  The only thing that surprises me is that someone had the sense to chain the nursery door shut--though apparently the nurse within wasn't one of the chosen--to minimize the possibility the mothers would get to their children and spread it further."
"If the police were called first...." Dean doesn't have the highest opinion of the police anywhere, but even he can't quite imagine them able to kill those women in cold blood.  And if protocol required calling the National Guard, it's a good bet this wasn't supposed to be handled--or even known about--by the locals and risk panic.  "When she went in there, all the kids had manifested; eight hours from the last, seven from the time of the alarm...." Seven to twelve hours, Jesus.  "I missed it."
"You couldn't have known," Cas says, which is true; the thing is, the other Dean would have.  He would have caught it the moment Alicia said she went to the nursery, and those women would have confirmed it.  But he would have known before that anyway: it was just basic math.
The knock on the door is almost immediately followed by Joe's face. "Sean's team just left.  Lee and Damiel are back early; I sent them to get something from the mess and pick the recruits going with them. You want me to send them in here when they're done or...."
"Yeah," he answers.  "Mel's team back?"
Joe nods confirmation.
"And Sarah and her team?"
Joe gets a really familiar look: right. "With Kat."
"I want everyone here in fifteen minutes, including the recruits," he says, not looking at Cas.  "You and Amanda, too.  We're going out with them and wait our turn at the South Gate."
"Got it," Joe says, closing the door, and Dean has just enough time to acknowledge--
"When did you decide that?" Cas asks neutrally.
--maybe he could have told Joe to wait a minute and talk this over with Cas first.
"Just now," he admits.  "Something...." It's not just about those missing hours; it’s the reminder he doesn't know anything yet, he's just faking it really well.  Sure, he's not sure what hanging out at the South Gate for a few hours will do, but it's not like being at Headquarters is better.  "You were right; it may be shitty, but this is the only plan we have other than waiting around doing nothing.  If I'm at the South Gate--if something happens...." Yeah, he has no idea what he's doing.
"You don't want to be here doing nothing while your soldiers out there," Cas says with a flicker of amusement.  
Dean's soldiers: he hasn't earned them yet, not really, and this week's proved it.  "Yeah," he agrees.  "That'd be it."
The briefing doesn't take long--it's not like this is complicated or anything--and Dean dismisses them with Cas reminding them to suit up for a presumed hostile encounter instead of a standard patrol.  So there's a difference: another thing he didn't know.  
When they're gone, Cas goes to the door and waits, staring at Dean until he realizes, hey, that includes him, too.  "Hostile encounter?"
"More weapons," Cas explains, following him up to their room, where the arsenals come out, spread out on the floor for Cas to peruse with the concentration of someone deciding the fate of mankind.  Which, he remembers, is actually one of Cas's angelic skillsets.  
Making his selections and setting them on the bed, Cas repacks the cases and turns to look him over with the kind of critical professionalism that shouldn't make him flush and hate pants.
Then Cas loops the shoulder holster over his arm and says, "Please don't move," and Christ, he forgot this part and is so very fucked.  
Skimming off the flannel, Cas tosses it on the bed without looking, tilting his head before saying, "Please lift your arms."
(Dean's accepted that his life with Cas is going to be the equivalent of living with all the universities in history not only teaching him shit that he never cared about or even knew existed, but that no one knew existed. Not only that, somehow, all of it will not only be relevant to his life, he'll really like knowing it.  

The hindbrain contains primal instincts that date back before you were even sentient and it responds not at all to arguments that we live in more enlightened times and there's no need to visually mark you as mine to all that might behold you.

See, he doesn't even need to know what the fuck a hindbrain is (the hind of the brain?) to get this.  His hindbrain (isn't a hind a deer or something?) gives no shits about setting, timing, or even content, much less 'enlightened times' (whatever that means); when Cas uses that voice, its response is a blanket answer of 'yes, please'.)
Case in point: Dean lifts his arms with the same alacrity as if Cas said, "Remove your pants so I can suck you off" or "Bare your chest so I may remove your heart with my bare hands".  
(Answer: 'yes, please'.  Because hind-fucking-brain.)
The worst part--best part?--is that Cas isn't being anything but professional, but his hindbrain (that's gotta be fake) can't tell the difference.  Sliding the shoulder holster up Dean's right arm, he moves behind him to settle it against his upper back before repeating with the left.  Crossing in front of him, Cas adjusts the buckle of the holster under his left arm for a quick draw with his right, then the magazine holders that fit under his right.  Going back to the bed, Cas selects a gun and two magazines, and it looks like foreplay's gonna be getting pretty goddamn dangerous in the near future. If he ever gets anywhere near that with Cas again (and losing that right now seems worse than Ichabod, the Apocalypse, and Lucifer reigning on earth.  His priorities are fucked).
When that part's done, Dean doesn't bother relaxing; Cas checks his belt (he did it this morning but fuck if Dean's reminding him now), adding a twelve-inch hunting knife to rest against Dean's outer thigh, then the thigh holster is in Cas's hands and breathing is for those poor losers not here right now.  Kneeling (oh God), Cas slides it around his leg, hand resting on Dean's inner thigh as he sets it into position before buckling it into place.  Getting up, he returns to the bed for the gun and settles it in its holster before checking Dean's boot knife and finally easing to his feet.
When Cas appears abruptly holding the flannel, Dean stares at it with no clear idea what you do with those.  Tear it into strips, it's strong enough to--
Put it on, he realizes, and hates everything.  Ever.
Stepping back as he buttons it up again, Cas looks him over again, and Dean's just got faking his breathing down when he says, "I want to go with you," and drops on the foot of bed with enough of a bounce to clear Dean's head (a little).  "I understand your reasons and they're logical, but--"
"They're really not," he admits, drifting toward the bed because logic isn't his strong point right now and never has been, come to think.
Cas ignores him. "It's prudent that one of us be available here--"
"Yeah, I'm known for that," Dean agrees, self-preservation kicking in enough to stop him about six inches from Cas's knees.  
"--but...." Cas looks up at him in belated confusion.  "What?"
"I don't want you anywhere near Crowley," he says without thinking, and oh, that's a mistake.
Cas's confusion goes straight to shock, and there we go, that look: on a guess, the last people to see that were in Sodom or Egypt and he knows how well that went for them.  "You think I can't handle Crowley?"
"I know you can handle Crowley," Dean starts with the confidence of someone trying to talk their way out of being shoved off a cliff.  "That's not the problem."
"Then why...." For a moment, relief washes through him that he won't have to say it, Cas understands, but no, this is his life.  Confusion to angelic wrath to confusion to...oh God.  "Are you perhaps under the impression that I welcomed Crowley's attempt at seduction and will succumb upon seeing him again?"
"No!" he states with the desperation of someone being held off the side of a cliff: if he looks down right now, all he'll see is empty air and the couch in the Situation Room that he'll be sleeping on for the rest of his life because Cas will never let him back in Chitaqua, much less their cabin.  "It's not you, it's him."
Cas's expression doesn't change.  "What," he asks in the same voice Jeffrey heard telling him all about his skinned-alive-hanging-from-Chitaqua's-walls future, "does that mean?" 
"It means," Dean answers hopelessly, "that it's not logical!  What aren't you getting about this?  I know you can handle Crowley, Erica, all her buddies, probably half of Hell without even trying!  It.  Doesn't.  Matter. I don't want you out there; I want you here.  Maybe just stay in here?" he asks, looking around the room. "Salt line, lock the door, maybe move the bed...just until I get back, I mean."
Cas's eyebrows rise just enough for him to realize that Cas did get that last part wasn't so much a joke as a plan made in futile hope.  Waiting, he goes through all the arguments Cas will make--and the ones he doesn't need to, unspoken but crystal-clear--and eventually realizes he's been waiting and Cas is--not arguing.
"Cas?" he asks warily, and if he maybe cuts six inches to three, well, he did, what else is there to say?  "Look, I know you're pissed about--" Christ. "About a lot of things.  I fucked up a lot, and you're totally justified here.  I just...." He struggles desperately for something--anything--and what comes out is, "Hindbrain."
"Oh."  Cas tips his head back to look at him, unimpressed.. "Well, then, all is explained."
Those three inches vanish when Dean straddles his lap, feeling Cas's hands settle on his hips automatically, blue eyes startled as he knots a hand in Cas's hair and kisses the curve of his lower lip as the faint stiffness drains away.  The soft mouth opens beneath his, and Dean shoves everything else away, greedy: mine, that's the hindbrain thing, the part that tells logic to take a walk and good sense to fuck itself.  
Education, never wasted: now he knows what it is that makes him memorize all of Cas's expressions and watch his hair fall into his eyes when he's working on something too intently to pay attention and the thousand ways Cas laughs and the exact rhythm of his breathing when he sleeps.  Why he resented Alison--and maybe sometimes still does--because she could see into Cas's mind, could do something he couldn't and even admit he wanted to.  At least, back then.
Jealousy, no fucking shit, what clued him in?  Jealous of Theodore, who Cas remembers fondly for sex and alcohol, of Alison, who can see his mind, and of Crowley, who touched him and shoved some part of himself inside him and Dean can't afford to think about that, not now, not a few hours before he plans to use the guy, or he'll kill him on sight.  And of Dean: the other Dean, the smarter, stronger version, no scarred arm or recent fever and wasn't too stupid to even know what he was missing, the wound his death left in Cas that may be healing but he'll always carry the scar.  That Cas said he'd choose him only helps when he doesn't think about the fact he's also the only one here.
Hindbrains are dicks, and so is he.  Jealousy: what wouldn't you do when driven by that?  Knowing you'll never be quite as good no matter what you do, when you wonder late at night if becoming them would be enough, when you wonder if you even could, or maybe--maybe if you just might want to.  It's only a few steps from there to try.
He pulls back when he has to breathe, light-headed and dizzy, panting against Cas's lips.  "I'm sorry," he whispers, stroking his fingers down the thick stubble, prickly against his left, not even a sense of pressure against the first two fingers of his right.  "You deserve someone better--"
"Shut up."  A strong hand clamps down on the back of his neck, and anything else Dean was going to say--whatever that was--vanishes into the welcome heat of Cas's mouth.  It feels like an argument and like a benediction, and if it feels like the forgiveness he shouldn't be given so cheaply, he'll take it anyway.
"You're ridiculous," Cas breathes, pressing a kiss to the corner of his mouth, to the dent just above his chin.  "It's not an epic tragedy; I don't even like reading them, so why would I want to live one?  I don't agree with your reasons for concealment, but...."  There's a momentary hesitation.  "We'll talk about it when we get home.  Perhaps with hamburgers and milkshakes."
Way too cheaply: no one deserves forgiveness if they didn't pay for it in full measure and tenfold, and he's got a lot of paying to do.  "I'm going to make it up to you," he promises, thumb sliding over one high cheekbone.  "Everything, Cas."
Cas rolls his eyes, leaning up to kiss him, and then the next thing he knows, he's sprawled on the floor and Cas is grinning so hard it's like staring into the sun.
"Did you--" Dean pushes himself up to try and glare, but he's grinning, too.  "You asshole."
Getting up, Cas extends his hand, unrepentant.  "You're going to be late, and I'm not sorry at all," he says in satisfaction, pulling Dean to his feet and turning toward the rifle leaning against the foot of the bed before Dean's grip on his hand pulls him up short. "Dean?"
Lacing their fingers together, Dean gets the rifle himself and reluctantly abandons the hopeless plan of convincing Cas to make their room into an ad hoc fortress as he leads him to the door. 
"Walk me down," he invites, tightening his grip.  Not that Cas seems to be fighting to get away, but never hurts to be prepared.  "You can check everyone before we go and scare them."
"I do like doing that," Cas agrees obediently, shutting the door behind them.  "But mostly, it will be to see you off safely."
"Want anything?" Dean asks as they start toward the back stairs. "Crowley's head on a platter, maybe?  I can do that."  All he needs is a platter; maybe the mess has one?
"Just you," Cas says, and Dean fumbles the door like an idiot.  "And a trade agreement with Wendy supplying Chitaqua with candles.  A very generous one: I would like a lot of candles, and she may have to recruit more apprentices to assist her."
Dean pulls the door closed in the stairwell before shoving Cas against it to taste that smile.  "Anything you want."
Castiel busies himself with important and completely mundane work on the patrol schedule, but it takes almost no time at all to update it, which leaves him far too much time to think.  He can effortlessly track Dean's progress, after all: first, four people will go to the garage to acquire extra vehicles (most are in the walls now, so it's something of a miracle there are any vehicles left) before surreptitiously driving them south of Baltimore to pick up the rest of patrol who will subtly make their way there so as not to alarm anyone with large numbers of heavily armed Chitaqua residents suddenly appearing for no particular reason and assuming the worst.
(Apparently, any number greater than 'three' in Ichabod's streets is considered a large number when it comes to Chitaqua.)
Sitting back in dissatisfaction, he considers and discards several equally important duties he should see to, then realizes belatedly he's rubbing his right hand absently against his thigh.  Lifting his hand, he frowns at the reddened palm before there's a knock on the door. 
"Come," he says in relief, closing the laptop.
Kamal opens the door with a faint smile, but there's a strained quality to it. "You have a sec?"
"As many as you need."  He gestures to the chair across from him. "Sit down."
Taking the chair, Kamal frowns, and Castiel wonders if offering coffee now would be a good idea. 
"Needed a break from Micah," Kamal explains, fingers tapping lightly on the table.  "Sheila and Chris took over."
As that was on the schedule (that Castiel made), he suspects Kamal isn't sharing that information because he's worried Castiel will assume he's guilty of dereliction of duty.  "Still unpleasant, I take it?"
"Yeah."  Kamal's eyes fix on the table, fingers taking up a more rapid rhythm.  "Just asks for Alicia between ignoring our questions.  Par for the course."
"We're not allowed to beat him for answers," Castiel says sympathetically, though in all honesty, beating Micah for the sheer joy of doing it would be his primary motivation. Kamal's expression flickers, the strain returning.  "Something isn't par for the course?"
"He's acting twitchy," he says. "Like, even more than before."
Or perhaps Micah does know something.  "What questions is he reacting to--"
"I mean crazy," Kamal interrupts, the words tumbling out like he's been waiting for an opening.  "Cas, I've been watching him either in the room or on the TV the entire time he's been in there.  Earlier, he was ignoring our questions and being a dick, yeah, but now he's...he's ignoring our questions, but only after we repeat them a couple of times.  Like he didn't hear them or something.  Then he asks for Alicia and it starts over again."
"Does he say anything else?"
"No--actually yeah," Kamal answers, frowning uncomfortably.  "He asks if we can hear it."
Three minutes of observation clarify matters considerably.  He feels the hair on the back of his neck rise as Micah's head jerks abruptly, like it was grabbed by the hair, to focus on Sheila in surprise when on the third repetition, she raises her voice.
"He's not faking," Kamal says from beside him.  "I mean, he could be that good an actor, but...."
"Why on earth would anyone want to act like this, yes," Castiel agrees as Micah's gaze darts around the room almost frantically, reacting not at all to Chris's next question.  Turning his attention to Chris and Sheila, he examines their expressions; both are professional, but the same strain he saw in Kamal's smile is visible around Sheila's mouth and Chris's eyes as they watch Micah, restless in limited motion.  One hand comes up to his throat just as his eyes dart to another empty point of air, stroking the skin almost soothingly.  "He wasn't acting like this before?"
"No," Kamal answers.  "Smug jittery dick before, weird jittery dick now." They both watch as Micah reaches to touch his nose, patting it as if uncertain it's there and requires reassurance before jerking his hand back down. 
"Before," Castiel says. "Before what?"
"Before Dean talked to him," he answers.  "Figured at first Dean said something that spooked him and he was fucking with us in revenge.  Now, not so much."
Interesting.  "Is the recording still in the camera? I want to see it."
"Don't have any," Kamal says, making a face.  "Dean ordered the cameras off."
Castiel just prevents himself from saying something he will probably regret. Eventually.  "Why?  I assume it wasn't to beat Micah to death."
"Didn't say," Kamal offers with a shrug, and Castiel bites back a then why didn't you ask?; this would be one of those times their militia forgets it's supposed to do that.  Asking why did you let him do that? would be even less productive; Vera's the only one who might do that (today, possibly from sheer spite), but depressingly, she was needed for saving people's lives.  "Cas, the geas--he probably has it, could this be that?"
If the geas reacts to the feeling of being trapped as well as the reality, both are satisfied by Micah being in that room, but size as well as the fact only two other people are with him wouldn't.  Then again, it may very well have mutated; there's no way to know what number he is in geas-telephone or what the command is now.  Surely Sheila and Chris would have reacted as well; there's no possible way they aren't carrying some version of it by now.
"I want someone watching the feed at all times," Castiel says finally.  "Mark and Gary are to check inside the room every fifteen minutes and should receive verbal assurance from Sheila and Chris that they are still in their right minds.  Don't underestimate him; he may be out of practice, but he was one of us, and we can't count on him having forgotten his training."
"No one who made it through training can forget," Kamal says wryly, and Castiel's surprised by the affection in it. It didn't occur to him that--at least with the second class--those would be pleasant memories for anyone but him.  "Anything else?"
"I trust your judgment."  Micah jerks again to look at Chris in what might be genuine surprise.  "I'm going to the infirmary to speak to Dolores; if there's any change or he engages in hostile action--" He pauses so they can watch Micah's eyes follow an invisible path across the wall above Sheila's head, the blind sweep of his gaze over them via the camera sending a chill down Castiel's back.  "Clear the room of everyone but Micah, lock the door, and send for me, in that order.  Do not engage; if this is the geas, there's no guarantee whatever version he has now will manifest as the others did."
"Got it," Kamal says with a sloppy salute, and Castiel can't quite hide his smile as he goes out to speak to Mark and Gary.
Everyone is way too quiet on the jeep ride to the South Gate--which is now three quarters field and the population of which has increased by a number he calls 'fuckload' of livestock, nosing the snowy ground, makeshift feeding areas in protected sheds with hay and fresh water and whatever else you feed cows (Dean's hazy on this, he should learn).  
Ichabod didn't fuck around during Operation: Get The Animals Inside the Awesome Walls.  He wasn't around for most of it (staring at Cas was kind of a lifestyle choice at that point), but eighteen hours, and any area not encompassed by Cas's wall (and Cas even crazy made an effort to get the primary fields as well as the barns, stables, sheds, pens, coops, warrens, insert animal-related enclosure inside the perimeter) was searched, the animals rounded up (on horseback, even, like a real life western) and herded inside, where groups of residents were already preparing.  Not a lot of fences--or really any--but in roughly designated areas horses, cows, sheep, goats, and--just to make this more hilarious and surreal--the occasional alpaca wander together.
He's still not over the alpaca: according to Alison, about six months earlier, a herd showed up and pretended they'd always been there when feeding time came.  
("Montgomery Ranch," she told him.  "They were way too well-fed, and I'm kind of opposed to stealing animals even if they did it themselves.  We checked around, got a lead from a town nearby that they traded with, and went to tell them about the escapees."
Her expression tells him what they found when they got there.  "Monsters?"
"Raiders: Manuel recognize the signs.  We found about forty bodies--plus not a few raiders--a couple of hundred dead alpaca, along with most of the less portable livestock.  Didn't find any kids--which means either there weren't any there, or the raiders took them along."
"Nice of them," Dean says a little sickly; no one wants dead kids, but if they didn't have the stomach to murder toddlers, he's not seeing many good scenarios coming out of this.
"The place was stripped bare of food and weapons before they tried to burn it down. Failed, of course: they weren't competent in arson and the rain that week probably didn't help."
Dean sat forward: killing for food he gets (Chitaqua wasn't near starvation yet before the deal with Ichabod, just restricted rations, but seeing the dwindling supplies and looking at his camp members adjusted his thinking faster than probably anything else could have about survival here), but killing the animals and destroying the ranch doesn't.  Its' not like the raiders needed to cover their crime here.  "Why?"
"So people would know they'd been there," she answers evenly.  "Warning, calling card, showing off, who knows?  Can't say the Alliance wasn't at least one of the reasons they started doing that. We run patrols between our towns, and any town or farm inside the line benefits as well whether they're members or not; they call, we answer if we can.  We're smack in the middle of Kansas, Dean, and we may be a small area, but it's gotta grate they can't get in.")
Cas's Greek Alpaca Island Adventure is looking less crazy; apparently, alpaca really is (was?) an industry you wanted to get in on the ground floor of.  Though Alison was horrified at the idea of using them for food; like some of the herds of sheep and one of Ichabod's actual warrens of rabbits, the alpaca are spoiled rotten because they have awesome fur (wool?) that can be turned into clothes by some mysterious means involving yarn and looms.  Thanks to the Alliance, they have the resources for investing time and labor in animals for more than their value roasted, baked, or fried.
Looking over the snowy field, he can't remember for sure if Ichabod has shifts out here full-time or just check-ins to make sure the water isn't frozen and something isn’t upsetting the herds.  The landscape is dotted with random shelters that actually don't look too bad; he could see someone taking a book and a battery powered space-heater in there, make a day of it in the hay.  Sounds nice, actually: he was a cowherder (cowboy? Oh, that would be cool), he wouldn't be dealing with being the shittiest boyfriend in the world or unable to stop seeing that stricken look on Cas's face.
Christ, he shouldn't have let Cas let him off like that, because Christ, he has every right to be pissed about this.  Yeah, you should have expected better of me, this was the shittiest possible way to find out; yeah, I fucked up, and from an entire host's worth of shitty options I picked the one that was easiest on me; it was a mistake and I'm sorry.
A sudden movement in the more distant white-coated fields gets his attention, and Dean picks out the distant black faces of sheep like dots on the landscape.  Scanning the herd--flock, right--he watches the white-on-white motion, the suggestion of black legs like blurs, and then notes a slim figure among them, barely an outline at this distance, dressed in something as white as the snow.  Shepherd: of course Ichabod has one.  He watches him--no, her, definitely a woman--wave her crook, and the flock abruptly disperses, running madcap among the placid cows while others seem to be headed toward the barns and pens, little white balls of fluff on blurry black feet like living clouds.  Dean accepts it as adorable and goes with it, especially Tiny Sheep Number Who Knows nuzzling the blunt nose of a lone cow about ten times its size before zipping by.
Rubbing his eyes tiredly, he observes that several more cows seem to have joined it, munching on cleared ground; even cows, need friends, he supposes, watching others wander up from somewhere to join.  That is, he reflects, a fuckload of cows.
"Dean?" He jerks his attention to Amanda, who looks amused.  "You still with us?"
He fights the urge to call Cas and see--what?  "Call front desk at HQ.  Make sure the kids are paying attention."
"Now you're just being mean." Exchanging a look with Joe, she picks up the walky-talky, flipping the channel.  "HQ, it's Amanda, over."
The pause feels like forever before it crackles subtly and they hear Jeremy, sounding tinny. "Chitaqua front desk," Jeremy says firmly, like he's reporting a life and death struggle of the ages.  "Over."
Amanda grins.  "Hey, hon, just checking in.  Everything okay?"
"Status is--uh, fine," he says, and Dean bites his lip against a grin at Jeremy's annoyance with himself.  "Status quo ante."
"Got it. Over and out."  Closing the channel, she cocks her head. "Feel better, mother hen?"
He wrinkles his nose.  "Check in again in fifteen minutes.  Make sure they aren't doing anything Maimouna is gonna kill me for later."
"They're not--" Joe starts.
"Seventeen," Dean enunciates, and Mel snickers from the front of the jeep.
Joe looks scandalized.  "In the lobby?"
"In the principal's office," he answers and Joe's horror is too much; he and Amanda collapse in laughter (good thing Sarah's driving if the sounds Mel's making are any indication).  "Under the bleachers during a football game."
"In the bleachers at Homecoming," Amanda says smugly, crossing her arms and giving them all a challenging look.  "Bathroom of a redneck bar, baby."
"Behind the bar," Dean counters as Joe makes shocked sounds.  "During happy hour."
"Stop it!" Joe demands, scandalized, and Dean distinctly hears Mel giggling in the front seat. "What is wrong with you two?"
"I was on business," Amanda answers sulkily.  "She was a contact, thus much contact must be made."
Dean grins. "Aren't they all?"
"You're both...." Joe glares at them both before subsiding, turning deliberately to stare out the window like he doesn't know them.  
Grinning, Dean watches for the South Gate; this is actually his life.  Surrounded by cows in a walled city, about to summon a Crossroads demon and not even deal, yet all he can think is that the wall could really be improved by some towers, break up the monotony.  Walter may be onto something with that moat idea; some things are restricted from crossing running water.
"Dean," Amanda says abruptly.
"Yeah?" he asks when she just frowns, shifting uncomfortably before blowing out a breath.  "Everything okay?"
"Yeah, I just gotta get this off my chest."  Taking a deep breath she turns to face him.  "You're not going to sell your soul to Crowley or anything, right?  That's not the plan?"
"You heard the plan," he answers in bewilderment.  "Cas approved it."
"I mean your secret plan."
"What secret plan?"
"That's what I'm asking," she says, so seriously that Dean wonders if maybe there is a secret plan he forgot about.  "The one you didn't tell anyone about because you're that stupid."
"I'm not that--"
"Yeah, you are," she says, and it's actually terrifying she can say that without actually knowing enough of his (real) history to confirm how right she is.  "So I'm asking again: is there any plan of any kind that involves your soul, period?  Crowley optional here."
"No," Dean answers honestly, which doesn't seem to be as reassuring as he thought if her dubious expression is any indication.  "No soul involvement whatsoever."
"But if it seems like a good idea, is that on the table?" she persists, and now he's got Joe--and fuck his life, Mel, who's actually leaning over the goddamn seat--looking at him.  "Let's make this easy: that's not an option."
"I'm not," he says flatly, "going to sell my soul."
"Okay, and it's not that I don't believe you, because I do," Amanda lies.  "But anything comes out of your mouth that could be mistaken for something like someone trying to make a deal, I'll shoot you.  Three months and some rehab, you'll be fine, good as new, promise, but--"
"Holy shit," Dean interrupts. "You really would, wouldn't you?"
She frowns at him.  "Yeah, of course.  You know I'm a good shot.  Wounds heal; sold souls…do something else, work with me here."
A desperate look at Joe gets him an adamant nod, and Mel's with the program, adding in an extra determined look.  Sarah's still driving, or he suspects she'd be giving him the same look but expressionless and therefore scarier.
"You'll shoot me if you think--think--I might maybe be making a deal with Crowley for my soul?"  It's possible he heard that wrong because belated brain damage due to fever.  He hopes.
"Any deal," she corrects him, confirming for all time that Cas desperately needs a co-parent when raising his next batch of hunters.  "Even if all you're giving up is your shoes, so--fair warning."
"Why would I give up my shoes?" he asks, because that's the important question here (also, he's curious). "What would a demon want with my shoes?"
"No idea, but they aren't getting them," she answers darkly and sits back.  "Glad we talked about this."
Dean looks at Joe, then Mel (no help whatsoever) and gives up, deliberately turning to look out the window.  Crazy people.
Castiel leaves Headquarters, taking in the semi-busy street so to best avoid passers-by.  Despite that, as he passes an alley, he almost runs into someone, and jerking back before collision, he sees Cathy frozen in front of him, eyes wide as her face drains of what color she usually possesses, and he notices one eye looks suspiciously swollen, the red threatening to become a spectacular bruise, and she's favoring her right leg.
All his observations of Ichabod have confirmed that abusive behavior would not be tolerated, but that is difficult to enforce when it's well-concealed.  Then, it can happen under your very eyes and not be the wiser, perhaps for months or even years.  She always had an explanation, but he never thought to question how many there were, how often they were produced.  As if she'd practiced beforehand: as if she'd had practice with explanations.  
Of course, that was only after he started to ask when he was training her; before--before, he never asked at all.
"Do you need assistance?" She looks at him as if she doesn't understand the question. "You're injured."
She licks her lips, her uninjured eye darting away.  "No," she answers, shaking her head.  "Just--I was clumsy."
"Perhaps--I am on my way to the infirmary to speak to Dolores.  Perhaps you could accompany me so she can--see to that."
"No!" Cathy takes a step back, looking horrified.  "I'm fine, just--just an accident."
She's not one of his soldiers; he can't simply order her back to Headquarters until he's certain what questions to ask.  "If you're certain--"
"I'm fine," she says, ducking her head. "I--have to do something."  Before he can think of a non-threatening way to detain her, she slips past him, and Castiel watches her for a moment, uncertain, then continues to the infirmary.  Dolores is his object, after all, and this is a matter that he can leave in her hands.
When he arrives at the infirmary, he finds himself hesitating at the door to the ER at the realization that Alicia is somewhere here and feels ridiculous; he's certainly not the one who should feel awkward at this moment.  Going inside, he observes the controlled chaos, carefully avoiding the attention of those waiting.  To his relief, Dolores appears very quickly, smiling tiredly but with genuine welcome.
"Cas," she says.  "Everything okay?"
"Yes, thank you," he says politely.  "Do you have a few moments?"
She studies his face, then nods, leading him to her tiny office, where a desk (on which, he notes approvingly, is a laptop), several file cabinets, and a Dolores-long couch take up almost all floor space.  "Sit down," she says, closing the door and indicating the couch before sinking on the other side with a sigh, stretching her legs before looking at him wryly. "Don't break it to me gently."
"The people still under observation from the catalyst events," he starts.  "How are they doing?"
Dolores raises an eyebrow. "Some seem a little calmer, but none I'm comfortable with releasing without someone to watch them yet," she answers.  "Now tell me which ones you're interested in."
He thinks about how to phrase this.  "Are any of them...asking if you can hear something?"
The change in her expression is immediate.  "'Can you hear it?'"  He nods.  "Four--no, three of them now. The ones--"
"The ones who were involved in the catalyst event at Volunteer Services on Fifth."  She nods, lips tight. "One of them has suicided, Dean told me.  How are the other three now?"
"Under twenty-four hour watch."
"They're suicidal as well?"
"Suicidal, homicidal, and I don't say this lightly, crazy," she answers flatly.  "None of those who were catalyzed are doing great, but those three are something else."
"Do they have family here?" he asks.  "Perhaps some pre-existing condition--"
"Yeah, we're looking, but not a lot of luck when the only names we have are 'Beretta', 'Beard', and 'Bushmaster'," she answers.  "Those are the only names they'd give when they were talking.  I'm not saying they're lying, but something Karl noticed: Beretta was carrying a Beretta, Bushmaster ditto, and Beard--"
"Has a beard?" She nods; he didn't think there were any guns known as 'beard'. "And the one who suicided?"
"Remington, carrying same," she says.  "I'm guessing either nicknames or--well, it's not like they're the only people who figured new world, new name, why not pick a cool one?  We took pics and used the laser printer to make a few color versions, copied off a few hundred in black and white to show around, but so far, no one's come forward or even asked about missing friends, so--could be loners.  We have a lot of those."
"Or they came together," he says absently.  Those who catalyze violently tend to be both physically close to each other and from the same towns and even families, their reactions almost simultaneous.  While correlation doesn't equal causation, it does make him wonder if familiarity was also a factor; if one's brother or close friend became catalyzed, it would raise the chances of a similar reaction instead of being frozen.  
With one exception to both of those.
"Cas, just going to ask," Dolores says abruptly.  "Is this about Dean?  He's okay, right?  Not...."
Oh. "No, he's not showing any residual effects."  Dolores nods in relief, and he realizes the significance. "Dean's the only catalyzed individual who hasn't required--assistance?"
Dolores raises an eyebrow. "Didn't notice until now?  Don't look like that: no one else has noticed but me and I'm not spreading it.  Not really a surprise, now that I think about it; a hunter's frame of reference is different from a civilian's."
"That's true, yes."  He hesitates. "If it's convenient, I'd like to see them."
Dolores's gaze sharpens, but all she says is, "Come with me."
In the same observation room from which Castiel observed Haruhi only a few days ago, he looks into where the man known as Bushmaster is currently confined.  Despite being obviously heavily medicated, he's startlingly restless, albeit groggy, the half-closed eyes flickering constantly as if following invisible trails.  Every so often, he'll still, almost relaxing, before he shudders and the strange, half-focused search of empty air begins again.
Castiel glances over the monitors; when Dean was ill, Vera taught him a great deal about how to read them.  While he can't know Bushmaster's baseline, he is very much aware sedatives should depress those readings far more.  "What medication are you using?"
"Thorazine, five hundred milligrams.  See those restraints?" she asks, and Castiel nods; at least, the ones on his wrists, as those presumably on his ankles are hidden by the blankets.  "That's the second set, and we don't actually have that many more. There's every indication they'll break their own bones fighting them when they're not drugged to the gills."
Beneath the strict, professional calm, he can hear the fear in her voice; not for herself, but for them.
"They're acting as if they're still catalyzed."
He glances at Dolores when she doesn't respond, then follows her gaze back to Bushmaster, who sluggishly turns his head first to the left, then the right, pausing for a moment before he begins his search of the air again.  
"I've personally treated everyone who was catalyzed," she says slowly.  "And I read everything I could get on what happened and listened to them as well.  The geas doesn't make anyone suicidal; at least, before or during an event.  After, that much makes sense; besides guilt, that thing is literally fucking with their brain chemistry, and science knows just enough about the brain to know we know shit.  It'll take time for that to get back to normal in everyone--assuming once the geas breaks, everything resets to original manufacturer settings--and if we're lucky, the worst they'll deal with is some PTSD and some new or upgraded phobias.  
"So far, everyone else who was catalyzed is reacting pretty much exactly like I'd expect; shock followed by panic, guilt, depression, suicidal thoughts, and a few actual attempts; it's so predictable I named it Post-Geas Stress Disorder.  Those four...it was almost six hours before they woke up, and shock, panic, yeah, but they just got quiet after that. Wouldn't talk much--hell, it was an effort to even get their attention--and every so often, they'd ask--"
"'Can you hear it'," Castiel finishes, watching Bushmaster begin the pattern again.  "How did Remington succeed in his suicide attempt?"
"I fucked up," she says flatly.  "They were calm, so I just ordered them watched and keep trying to get them to talk.  There was an emergency near the shift change, everyone got distracted, and somehow, Remington got left alone.  Maybe five minutes, but any amount of time would have been too long; he stripped the bed, knotted the sheets, got them looped around both legs of the bed, and one of my orderlies arrived just in time to see him make a running dive out the window.  That gave him enough momentum to break his neck."
On impulse, Castiel reaches to squeeze her shoulder. "I'm sorry."  She nods shortly, muscles tight beneath his hand.  "And the other three--when they found out, they became more...."
"Not exactly."  She turns to look up at him.  "Valli was handing off Beretta to Lois, and Beretta suddenly started screaming.  They got her restrained--barely--and Lois sedated her before going to get me.  She saw Remington's door was open and then heard the orderly screaming.  Same happened with Beard and Bushmaster, according to Sree and Chess.  Luckily, Sree's the official medic for patrol and is good at the running tackle, and Chess is literally six feet five inches of solid muscle; he just picked up Bushmaster and held him a foot off the ground until help came. Used to be a college linebacker," she says with a fragile smile.  "Not gonna lie, he's my favorite orderly these days."
Castiel nods, watching as Bushmaster relaxes.  By now, he can predict to the second when he'll rouse again, and at the count of fifteen, his eyes flicker half-open, head slowly turning as he looks around the room again.
"Since then, if they're not drugged, they're screaming if we can hear it and to make it stop, and fighting the restraints hard enough that Beretta nearly broke her wrists before I raised her dose," Dolores continues rigidly.  "Bushmaster snapped his restraints once already, and I had to replace them all this morning from the strain."  Her eyes narrow, and following her gaze, he sees Bushmaster's arm twisting sluggishly, pulling weakly at the restraints.  "Like that."
"How long has it been since his last dose?"
"Thirty minutes," she answers.  "I had them on twenty-five before Remington suicided, and it took a hundred to bring them down.  Now, I'm raising it every six hours, and six hours from now, I'll have to administer it intramuscularly because they'll be fighting too hard by that point to risk oral.  And the only thing it's doing is keeping them relatively docile."
Bushmaster's wrists twist again in the cuffs, eyes darting around the room in slow-motion desperation, and nauseated horror washes through him.  Whatever haunts their minds still chases them even now, undeterred, and they're trapped in bodies that won't respond to their fear, unable to escape, barely able to even move--
"Has Alison seen them?"
"I haven't asked her," Dolores says quietly, and he hears in her voice how much that has costed her.  "If it's the geas--the risk--"
"I understand." Alison's stability is far too fragile and almost wholly now a matter of sheer will; the risk is unacceptable, to privilege the suffering of these three people over the lives of everyone in Ichabod. As he watches, Bushmaster's eyes squeeze shut, a fifteen second moment of relief before it starts again, and that decides him.  "The six hours after you first increased the dose, you said that worked?  The monitors--did they showed that they were not experiencing distress or were they simply unable to physically respond to it?"
"Blood pressure's autonomic, but their sympathetic pathways aren't suppressed," she answers.  "If it was happening then, it would have shown there, same as now.  Why?"
"What about when they sleep?"
"I give them a sedative," she answers.  "Same--at least, for a couple of hours--but--"
"Sedation with a hypnotic," he answers.  "And fentanyl patches, if I remember correctly. Opiates also have euphoric qualities, which might help.  It may not entirely suppress whatever is happening to them, but--"
"You want to put them in a coma?" Dolores asks blankly.
"It's caught them," he answers, staring at Bushmaster as he starts his helpless search again; can you hear it?. "All the medication is doing is inhibiting their response, not what is happening to them.  They're trapped on those beds in their bodies: they cannot run, they cannot fight, and it tortures them with endless terror at its leisure while we watch and do nothing."
"You think I don't know that?" Dolores demands, his own horror in her voice.  "I'm not an idiot; every time I give them a dose, I get all I'm doing is the chemical version of tying them up and leaving them to--whatever that's doing to them.  If I could crawl inside their minds and drag that shit out, I'd do it in a heartbeat!"
"We can't take it from them," he says. "But we can try and take them away from it."  
"There's no guarantee it won't fuck with them even then," she argues, but her expression is at odds with her words.  "People placed in artificial comas have reported being trapped in semi-lucid nightmares, and that can't be an improvement.  And what might happen to them--if only in their minds....."
"Even if it does, this combination should assure memory formation is suppressed," he answers.  "Whatever it does to them there, they won't remember it, and that would be a mercy.  If the possibility is all we have to offer, it's more than they have now, and we must try."
"If this is the geas--"
"If it is, this version of it is being shared now by someone who hasn't been catalyzed," he answers, and Dolores sucks in a breath.  "Micah is currently exhibiting similar behavior, albeit it seems only to manifest in distraction."  Which might mean that this version has five victims, and one of them independent of those at Volunteer Services that day.
Dolores hesitates.  "If we do this--and I'm not saying we are--how long are we talking about?"
Until Alison has rested sufficiently not to be a danger to herself and others.  "A few days," he answers.  "A week at most. If nothing else, it will give them some relief from their suffering, and that alone would make it worth doing.  If it's the geas--either the one that caused their reaction in Volunteer Services or a newer mutation on the original--then it won't last forever.  A week in an induced coma is the most effective isolation possible; that may be enough to hasten the burnout process."  Then he considers the current state of Ichabod and more specifically, what the medical staff is already dealing with. "If possible, I should say.  The demands on you and your staff--"
"We can do it."  Her eyes are on Bushmaster.  "Thorazine has a thirty hour half-life, but if we're going to do this, we can't wait that long." She's silent for a long moment.  "I need time to prep, get my staff together, and everyone get a very fast boot camp on how to care for comatose patients."  She makes a face.  "Now just have to see what we can do about a bigger room to hold all of them...."
"The wing where Sudha is located has several rooms ready for habitation, and only five occupied at this time," he says, and Dolores face softens affectionately.  "Nate was concerned that more women in labor than currently present might appear unexpectedly and wanted to assure they could be accommodated."
Dolores smiles.  "In case you're curious, between remodeling efforts, he also repaired several doors so they actually close, got two to actually open, did something to the sink in the breakroom to make it drain, and two bathrooms are now fully operational on the second and third floor.  He can do plumbing, too?"
Remembering Home Improvement Weeks One and Two, Castiel recalls that Nate (and Zack's) cabin was one of the only three with a fully functional toilet, shower, and both bathroom and kitchen sinks.  "He's truly a man of many talents."
Dolores nods. "I better start getting this going."
"You'll need someone to help with the patients once the thorazine wears off," he says casually.  "I'm not a linebacker, of course, but I think I can be of assistance and spare one of your orderlies potential injuries.  Perhaps even two."
Dolores's mouth twitches, giving him an exaggerated once-over, but there's understanding, too. "If it wouldn't be an imposition."
"Not at all," he answers, just managing to get ahead enough to open it for her and is rewarded with a smile.  Then he remember his other object and closes the door quickly. "I saw Cathy on my way here."  Dolores' expression darkens.  "She had--or will soon have--a black eye."
"She was okay earlier," Dolores says, frowning.  "I don't know if Dean told you, but she's banned from the infirmary.  I let her say goodbye to Carol, and she said she was going home."
"How long ago?"
"Right after I talked to Dean."  No, this was far more recent, within the last hour, perhaps.  "I'll check on her when I go off," she says decisively.  "Make sure everything's okay.  Thanks for telling me."
"You're welcome," he answers politely, and waits for her to precede him before following her out.
So as it turns out (no surprise), waiting around in front of the South Gate is just as boring as Headquarters.  He cut short--not voluntarily, but he let it happened--fun with Cas for this; what the fuck was wrong with him?
Which may (partially) explain why this is the highlight of his wait.
"Fine," Jeremy says shortly, and Dean hopes to God they didn't interrupt something--as in, there was nothing to interrupt. "Uh--" The background sound of something seems to get Jeremy's attention, and then Jeremy says, sounding almost frantic, "Sorry, I dropped something!"
"It's fine," Amanda says soothingly.  "Over and out."  Turning it off, she cocks her head.  "Okay, maybe you were right.  Second time he sounded like that: not the bathroom."
"Seventeen," he says smugly.  "Mel, you handle the next one."
"Dean, come on, they're kids," Mel says in amusement.  "They do this.  Why put roadblocks in the way of true lust?"
"Amanda, quick question," he says. "Maimouna really training for your next class?"
"Oh yeah," she says in satisfaction.  "She's semi-regular on patrol, and she's in the field working out every chance she gets.  Top thirty, easy.  She'll definitely make the cut."  Her expression changes.  "Oh."
"That's why," he says, looking around the jeep and seeing understanding.  "Joelle's wearing her mom's latest creation: stiletto-scarf.  That's who's going to be living a cabin over from one of us.  Any questions?"
Everyone shakes their heads.
Climbing out of the jeep, Dean glares at the wall but can't keep it up; it's a goddamn awesome wall.  "I need air," he explains, which just means Amanda and Joe follow him out because who the hell knows.  Crossing to the front of their jeep, the engine abruptly cuts off, and he glances at the windshield to see Sarah looking back and sighs.  
"Dean?" Joe asks.
"I feel like I'm forgetting something," he explains.  "Something really obvious."
"Like obvious as in front of you, or obvious like the six year old test?" He and Joe both turn to look at Amanda.  "Like a plan that if you told a smart six year old, he'd see all the problems immediately and make fun of you?"
Dean blinks slowly. "Where do you get this shit?"
"The internet, when we still had it.  It's a pretty good test," she argues.  "Kids are self-centered, world revolves around them, right?  They're not looking at the plan and thinking 'This will save a thousand people'.  They think, 'I don't like this, let's not do it'."
"I see it," Joe offers, probably just to be a dick.  "Details, not the big picture."
"Don't worry," she says, reaching to pat Dean's shoulder.  "We'd be shitty six year olds; I was drawing salt lines in the motel with two sisters below the age of three asleep on the bed.  Could change a diaper and perform an exorcism and not miss a beat."
He licks his lips.  "Sam hated his diaper."  She nods, not pretending to be surprised, and yeah, he figured she knew about him having a brother, though he doesn't have to look at Joe to know he didn't.  No one in Chitaqua knew, Cas said; thinking about it now, though, he wonders how the hell Dean here could have believed it.  It's not like Dad was low-key in any sense of the word as far as hunters go.
"Sam?" Joe says, looking between them suspiciously. "Who's Sam?"
Amanda raises an eyebrow, and to his own surprise, he doesn't hesitate. "My younger brother."
"You have a brother?" Joe exclaims, outraged.  "You told her and not me?  Why?"
Amanda bursts into laughter, which isn't helping.  "Joe, I--"
"This is bullshit," Joe continues, aggrieved. "Who's your drinking buddy and hasn't told Cas where all that missing Eldritch Horror is going?  Who covered for you when you fainted--"
"Passed out, and no, I didn't," Dean interrupts. "And I go down for missing Eldritch Horror, all of you are going down with me. Also, I just found out about yours!"
Amanda takes a moment from gasping to say, "He got you there.  I knew about Joe's brother," she says, which turns Joe inarticulate with hypocrisy.  "Joe, calm down.  Campbells are an old name in hunting, but the Winchesters made some serious roads in reputation as far as that goes.  You can't be a hunter and not know those names."
Dean nods.  "My dad, yeah--"
"You're kidding, right?" she asks incredulously.  "Dean and Sam Winchester did more in four years than John managed in his entire run." Seeing his expression, she shrugs.  "Might have been a fangirl."
"You were not."
"A little," she admits.  "Not knocking your Dad or anything, but Mom kind of loathed him.  Didn't think a woman with kids should be hunting with her husband.  Got on Dad about letting her, so Dad, not his biggest fan."
"Uh." Dean wonders if he said that one day or two after leaving him and Sam at the nearest shitty motel with questionably working water and a pile of ones on the table.  "Sorry about that."
"And you never...." Joe looks between Amanda and Dean. "Hunter thing?"
"Let's say need to know is what a hunter wants to tell when it comes to family."  Joe nods in belated understanding.  She looks between them for a moment, then at Dean.  "I know what you want to ask: go ahead."
"How long has it been?"
"Coming on ten years," she says lightly, climbing onto the hood of the jeep, one leg curled beneath her while her free leg swings idly.  "They were nice about it, but they had lives: the kids were old enough to ask questions, husbands were getting suspicious about their mysterious shopping trips, jobs were hard, PTA was fighting, pets missed them too much, I think. It's been a while, so…."
"Yeah," he says, throat tight. "That sounds about right."
"What?" Joe is abruptly standing in front of them both.  "They what?"
"Cut their losses," she answers, and only Dean knows what it cost to say it; true things always hurt the worst. "Before you explode, Joe, ask yourself which is easier; living every day wondering if your sister will ever contact you for another meeting and knowing if she doesn't, that means she's dead, or cutting contact yourself and living with maybe.  They picked the option that kept them sane."
"I'd pick my brother," Joe answers, quieter but no less intense.  "And he picked me and always has.  That's bullshit; you deserved better than that."  Amanda looks startled.  "Their families never asked what happened to Aunt Amanda…." He stills, and it's weird, watching Joe right now, seeing an outsider react to a fact of his and Amanda's lives.  "They never knew about you?"
"Their dad died in a hunting accident," she says.  "Their mom in a car accident: not even close, but whatever.  After that, all they had was each other.  An older sister who dropped out of high school at fourteen and got her first felony before she needed a bra, that shit doesn't fly in the Junior League."
"They...." Joe bites back the words, looking away, but Dean figures he knows what he was about to say, language unimportant.  "All those names you gave me for the border...."
"The aliases they knew about and could use, if they remembered. They could live with maybe," she answers, a catch in her voice on the last word.  "Looks like I can't.  I went looking for them when this started, to warn them, fuck their secrets, but they were already gone; Croat took half the town before anyone knew it was epidemic, and the cover up was the kind you hide from if you don't want to disappear.  They might not have been hunters, but I taught them everything they knew.  There's selective memory and then there's stupid. I'll forgive the first if they prove they weren't the second.  I'll find them eventually, it's just going to take some time."  Then, "Okay, something else, I don't care what."
"Yeah," Dean says.  "Amanda," he adds, waiting for her to look at him.  "We'll find them."
"Damn straight," Joe interjects.  "So I can tell them what I think of them.  After your better fucking be loving reunion, that is."
She laughs shortly, searching their faces.  "Okay."
"Cool."  Half-turning, Dean looks back at the peaceful, snowy fields, the scattering of livestock beneath the hazy moonlight peering between the color-slashed clouds above, not really surprised to see the girl again.
She wanders by a massive bull--he's pretty sure Teresa told them they don't house him with the cows for reasons--and it lifts a head almost as big as her torso.  He tenses, opening his mouth to tell Sarah to detour toward the crazy girl playing with bulls, now¬--but as she reaches out in passing, it lowers its head submissively and leans in when she scratches behind ears almost as large as her hand.  She turns her head and looks right at him, brown eyes dancing with laughter, and for a moment, all the worry falls away, peace spreading through him. Two of the sheep--Christ, they're not sheep, he forgot about that--jog up to her, and she gestures toward the jeep.  When they turn, Dean's breath catches at the sight of the guy's too familiar face, fear and pain washed away, and fights down the impulse to return his cheerful wave.  That, he thinks vaguely, would be weird.
Suddenly, all three stiffen, and he sees it echoed across the field as the others--a lot, he realizes in surprise--emerge from the knots of cows and goats, their heads turning northwest, toward Ichabod proper.
"Dean!" Joe says, and Dean shakes himself, turning to see him looking worried.  "You okay?"
"Yeah, fine," he answers, looking at the field again: just cows. He's not sure what he expected.  "Hey, Amanda, tell Mel to check in with Jeremy now, would you?"
Leaving Dolores to her duties, Castiel follows the irresistible smell of coffee; he's aware the infirmary is supposed to be substandard, but that does not make it any less coffee.  Half way across the room, however, he becomes aware of a furtive movement to his right, and turns to see Alicia slumped in one of the chairs and staring at him in utter horror.
He never had any intention of having private conversation with her today (or, perhaps, ever again), which may explain why he hears himself say, "I'm getting coffee."
Alicia unfreezes enough to nod. "Coffee's good."  
She winces, and Castiel forces himself to turn away and continue his path to the coffee pot, which doesn't look at all inspiring (rather like a tar-tinged sludge) but is still coffee.  Going about the soothing ritual of coffee-preparation, it's only when he takes his first sip (execrable, but again, coffee) that he notes there's a second cup on the counter and--for reasons unknown--he seems to have prepared that one, too.  He tells himself it's the habit of refusing to waste anything that makes him decide not to pour it on the floor (also, sugar causes a very unpleasant stickiness that he hates cleaning himself).  Picking it up, he turns and grimly marches across the room before extending the cup.
"Oh God," she says, staring at it like it might attack her.  "You got me coffee?"
"It's not personal," he says, shoving it toward her (careful, however, not to slop the hot contents and burn her).  She takes it automatically, like it might contain cyanide (or possibly, hoping it does).  "I made two and--waste not want not."
"Right."  She takes a deep breath, looking at it blankly for a long, horrible moment. "Cas--"
"You're very sorry for attempted murder, yes, I gathered." She flinches, which he pretends to ignore.  "Dean left with Damiel's and Lee's teams to wait at the South Gate.  When are Matt and Jody supposed to return from their shift at the YMCA?"
"About an hour," she answers, and belatedly, she takes a polite sip.  It improves nothing at all that her expression matches his own at the ungodly (yet still unmistakably coffee) flavor.  "Right.  Thanks.  I'll--uh, finish up and--"
"You understand that Dean wouldn't send you on a suicide mission," he says abruptly.  "Or any of his soldiers, for that matter."
"Yeah," she says quietly, eyes fixed on her cup. "I noticed that about him.  Wasn't even surprised."
"Then you can guess how he'll feel if he discovers after the fact that you planned to make it one."  She doesn't answer.  "So let me ask you this: are you planning to incite Erica to kill you, or are you simply assuming it will happen without your connivance?"
"It's not part of the plan, no."
"But you won't try too hard to avoid it."
"Mission comes first," she counters.  "Like I told Dean, I get what happens next--"
"Public confession, trial--though why that part, I have no idea, since you already decided the verdict--and the penalty, exile," he interrupts.  "Did you truly think that Dean--of all people--would shoot you in cold blood, especially over two years after the fact?"
"I wasn't thinking." Her eyes flicker up and then away.  "If I had been--"
"Or was it simply wishful thinking?" She flinches, shutting her eyes, and the cup in her hand begins to tremble.  "You realize this didn't have to happen?  He never should have left Chitaqua alive."
Alicia opens her eyes to gaze at him in confusion. "Who?"
"Micah."  
Alicia's expression dissolves into bitter amusement as she huffs a surprised laugh.  "If I'd known this would happen--"
"Not for this, though yes, that would be a very pleasant consequence," he retorts.  "For the crimes that he committed against you."
Alicia's laughter cuts off.
"If I had known...." He thinks of her during those months on the training field, the injuries she received: how many were incurred in the line of duty and how many within the questionable sanctity of what by no stretch of the imagination represents the covenant of marriage?  Two weeks: when he thinks of her with a gun outside his cabin, his imagination conjures what state she might have been in, what injuries were hidden beneath her clothes: did she limp the length of the camp to his cabin nursing bruised ribs; did a twisted wrist make it difficult for her to raise her gun; was anything recently dislocated; how badly did it hurt to even breathe?  A hundred things would make every movement agony, that she would have hidden as reflexively as she breathed, as she'd demonstrated so often on the training field.  
He's watched her dance until her shaking legs wouldn't hold her upright and never complain; he's seen her fight, bleeding from half a dozen wounds and never seem to notice; outside Ichabod, she ran far beyond her strength, baiting Croats to protect Dean, and even a twisted ankle wasn't enough to do more than slow her down before she kicked a hole in the postern door.  He's seen her collapse in exhaustion, but never, not once, has he ever seen her stop.
It chases you, she told them; sometimes, it catches up.  Eventually, no matter how fast you run, it will catch up; it's only a matter of time.
"If I'd known," he says, "I would have killed him myself."
She stares at him, eyes wide. "What?  Why?"
"His guilt is unquestionable, his repentance non-existent: he is a dog, Alicia, and you don't reason with a dog that bites;  you eliminate it so it cannot do it again."
She looks at him, cup forgotten in her hand.  "Who was she?"
"Who?"
"The woman whose dog you didn't kill."  Startled, he's unable to look away from the curious blue eyes.  "There was one, wasn't there? When you were an angel, and you couldn't--"
He laughs shortly.  "We were the Host on earth; our actions upon the earth were above reproach, our judgement without flaw; of course I could have killed him."
She wets her lips.
"Genocide, murder, torture, rape, abuse: they're so common, they're barely worth commentary.  Your birthright was free will, and we saw no reason to act when your crimes were only against each other unless ordered to do so.  With rare exceptions, of course."
She nods mute agreement, aware of one of those, at least.
"Unless a human brought themselves to our attention, we didn't even see you," he adds bitterly, remembering the wry note in Alison's voice when she told him that.  
"How'd she get your attention, then?"
"She had it from the moment of her birth."  Sitting back, he finishes his coffee and sets the cup aside.  "The gods are capricious, and Creation is but the setting for their games, human lives pieces theirs to use, ignore, or destroy.  Almost fifty years before her birth, I acted as messenger for Diana to her grandfather, to tell him that his request for vengeance was granted.  He wasn't aware, of course, that as with all the gods' favors, there would be a personal price to be paid for it."
"And let the games begin?" she asks wryly.
He nods.  "His daughter Sempronia was barren--by accident or by divine will, I don't pretend to know but can easily guess--and in her fortieth year, she attended the Lupercalia in Rome, the festival honoring Lupa, the wolf who suckled Romulus and Remus.  When the Luperci ran through the streets clothed only in the fresh skin of goats, any woman who wished for a child would stand so they might be struck with the blood or flesh of those skins and be granted fertility.  Sempronia was struck as they passed, and thus, fertility was granted and she gave birth to a daughter, named Fulvia in accord with her father's gens.  As a child of the Lupercalia, Fulvia belonged to the gods by right of divine intervention, and as the authors of her birth, they had the right to influence the course of her life."
"That's bullshit," Alicia says hotly.  "They did that a lot?"
"Not as often as they wished, but yes," he answers.  "The restrictions of free will chafed at them, and they were creative in finding ways to circumvent it."
She looks her opinion of that before her expression changes to curiosity.  "What was she like?"
"Extraordinary," he says softly, remembering.  "She was of high birth and great wealth, but it was her intelligence and will that defined her.  Unfortunately, she was born a woman at a time when women--especially those of her class--could do very little, which limited her ability to do what she would have done if she'd been born male: stand for office, lead an army, conquer the known world."
"That kind of girl," Alicia says in satisfaction.  "I like her already."
"She was put out, of course, but compensated by marrying men who would carry out her will.  Two of them were excellent choices indeed: Clodius and Curio were intelligent, ambitious, and knew her value as friend and partner as well as wife and lover.  She guided them to the pinnacles of their respective careers under the aegis of Gaius Julius Caesar, Consul, General, and Dictator of Rome."
Alicia is gratifyingly impressed. "And the third?"
"The third...." The flare of remembered anger hasn't faded in all this time.  "Marcus Antonius. He was Gaius Julius' cousin: a skilled general, poor politician, and even poorer excuse for a man.  He married her for her name and wealth, but primarily for the power she wielded, both that she inherited from her family and her husbands and that she gained by her own efforts alone, but he did believe he loved her and she did truly love him.  Like her first two husbands, he was guided by her to power and prominence, steering him through the politics he scorned and minimizing the disastrous mistakes he made in his mindless pursuit of power.  However, as he gained power, so grew his desire for more, and as he was with his wives before her, so he became again; in his anger and frustration, he began to beat her."
She sucks in a breath.
"When I felt her...I would come to her, and stand witness to a dog who pretended to be a man as he beat her.  When he finally left her, I'd watch her gather herself again, call her physician--an Egyptian priest-physician who had long served her family, one whose loyalty and discretion were unquestionable, for concealment was her first object--to see to her injuries, and go about her life once again.  
"As she healed, Antonius brought her rich gifts--for even to himself, the dog pretended to be a man--and she would pretend the wounds within her were healed as well.  They weren't," he whispers.  "A wound untreated becomes septic, infecting all within its demesne; there were dozens, hundreds inflicted over the years of their marriage, all suppurating, and they poisoned her and then slowly ate her alive.  She pretended she could not feel them, and the dog who wore the flesh of a man never saw them and would not have cared if he did.  I could see them all."
A faint sound makes him look up sharply, horrified to see the tears running down her face; he should have realized....  "I should not--" he says, starting to get up.
"No," she whispers, letting them continue to fall unchecked from reddening eyes.  "Tell me the rest."
"Alicia--"
"He killed her, didn't he?" she demands, voice raw.  "Tell me what happened to her, for fuck's sake!"
Slowly, Castiel lowers himself back into his chair.  "Antonius was offered marriage to a woman of very high birth, sister to his greatest enemy; he thought the alliance would bring him the power he craved.  He told Fulvia that he'd divorced her, they fought, and he beat her very badly and then left.  He sent word to her friends to deny her protection and succor; he assumed, of course, that she'd either die of her injuries or, friendless, she'd kill herself, and with her death, he'd gain control of her fortune.
"As soon as she could travel, Fulvia gathered her household and fled, though she was not well and only grew worse," he continues, forcing the words from between his teeth.  "Her friends closed their doors to her in their cowardice and fear, offering empty apologies and encouragement but nothing more.  She retreated to her home in Athens, where she closeted herself with a scribe and her physician for half a day, then sent them to Rome.  She then ordered a hot bath before dismissing her household, and when they were gone, she lowered herself into the bath and cut her wrists." Alicia's face drains of color.  "Not for the reason you may think: Fulvia was Roman.  From birth to death, their lives were their own, and they gave no one the right to take what is theirs.  Like her grandfather, her grandmother, and his brother before her, her life would be taken by her hand alone.  Anything less would be beneath her."
Alicia's shoulders begin to shake. "How'd I guess that's how the story ended? What the hell was wrong with her, to let him--"
"What was wrong with him," Castiel interrupts hotly, "that he would beat his wife simply because she was there?  What was wrong with him, that he would make her believe herself so flawed that she deserved it? Fulvia walked the Forum Romanum where women never ventured, like her great-grandmother before her, and made it her own.  She marched on Rome and she conquered it, in her own name, with an army she recruited beneath her banner.  She mourned two good husbands to whom she was beloved wife, partner, and collaborator in all they did, and raised seven children; there was no flaw in her.  She could have been none of those things, however; she could have been cruel, and neglectful, and a monster herself, and it would have made no difference.  The flaw was always within him!" 
He sees her in her bloody bath again, remembering the chilled fingers he touched as he took her eating knife and set it aside and curled those fingers in his own.  All that was light had almost been quenched within her, but only almost; even then, she was so bright, the core of her still untouched and shining as brightly as it had the moment of her birth.  

"Qafsiel Kaziel, Cassiel, Messenger, you who were Castiel to my great-grandmother, my grandfather, and my grandmother before me," she whispered, "I entreat you to grant me a single request."


"You have but to name it," he told her. "If it's in my power, it will be done."


She clutched his hand, eyes barely a slit of brilliant brown. "Tell me: will they reach Rome safely?  Will it work?"

"I regret I didn't kill him," he says softly.  "Both of them."
The silence that descends between them lingers, and he wonders uncertainly how this conversation went so dramatically off course.  Though it's possible that's because he never expected to have a conversation with her and therefore had no actual course to follow.  
Getting to his feet, he says,  "I should recall your team.  Please report to the Situation Room when you're done here."
"Cas," she says just as he reaches the door, fingers only inches from the doorknob.  Take it in your hand, he tells himself; open the door; leave.  He turns around.  "I want you to know that--that I'm sor--"
"Not nearly enough."
She flinches.  "I know.  It doesn't mean much after two years--"
"It means absolutely nothing hours before you plan to die," he interrupts.  "Water on the sand, words written in air: those have more permanence than repentance followed by suicide by proxy."
"I'm not going to--"
"I know you," he says, crossing back to look down at her.  "I trained you as a hunter and then in your chosen weapon that's also mine; I went on missions with you, I went to save Beanie with you, and I had sex with you. Many times." Alicia makes a face.  "If you're under the impression that somehow, after all of that, I managed not to gain some knowledge of your character--and this against my own inclinations, I assure you--you must be insane."
"You never knew me!" she exclaims, jumping to her feet.  "You didn't know my real name is Stephanie, that I'm married to Micah, or that I killed ten kids before I ever met you!  For fuck's sake, you didn't even know that I was one of the ones who tried to kill you!"
"It's not as if you did a good job of it!" he retorts; where did that come from?  "I also don't know what you had for breakfast. What does that have to do with anything?"
Alicia opens and closes her mouth.  "Breakfast?  What the hell--"
"I don't have to know all that you've done to know who you are," he answers.  "And I don't need to know the minutia of your past to know who you are now.  That person is going on a suicide mission and is only making the minimum amount of effort to convince me otherwise!"
"Why does it matter if I am?" she demands.
"You must be joking."
"You taught us payment must be rendered, one way or another," she says, eyes tear-bright.  "We pay for our sins, Cas, come on; you taught us that, too.  This way--"
"Don't pretend this is about anyone or anything but yourself."
She looks away.  "I didn't need the geas to tell me my greatest fear was chasing me; it always has, and four days ago, it caught up.  I knew it would happen one day, and best case scenario was dying before it did.  I can't live with it, Cas."
"Yes, you can," he corrects her.  "You just don't want to.  Matt, Jody, your friends, your comrades at home and here: their grief, their pain is a cheap price to pay indeed. It's not as if you're the one that will have to pay it."
"Fuck you," she whispers.  "Dean decides on exile, that's better than I deserve, but what then?  Where do I go?  Just pick a town in the infected zone and hope they let me stay?  Make a new life all over again?"
"You wouldn't be the first who has had to do so, nor the last," he answers.  "I don't doubt at all you could do it, and do it well."
"With what?  You don't understand: me--Alicia...she wasn't real, but until now, I could pretend she was.  Now that's gone, and--"
"That--she--you--are standing right in front of me," he says impatiently.  "Is it a human peculiarity, that you miss this so often?  You're a thousand people, Alicia, and you have been and may be a thousand more, but they're all still you.  If one could simply discard oneself when one is dissatisfied and start anew, I would have done it.  It would be far easier--and take far, far less time--than having to resign oneself to doing something with the somewhat substandard material you have at hand."
Alicia's glare is interrupted by an unexpected laugh.  "God, I can't believe you're reassuring me about my character after I tried to kill you."
"Is it working?" he asks curiously.
She shuts her eyes, and for what feels like years, there's nothing but the sound of their breathing; even the background of the infirmary only outside the door fades into silence.
Then she looks up at him.  "It's not that easy."
"It's not supposed to be," he answers. "Before you try to solve the ineffable meaning of life inherent in that statement, consider this: you haven't tried to live with it yet, so how on earth can you be sure you can't?  We haven't even survived Ichabod, and while the odds are in our favor, according to Lena, there's every chance that the Misborn will take care of the problem without your connivance.  Under the circumstances, I'm not certain what urgency there is to accomplish it now; it's not as if on the off-chance we survive, you won't have time later."
She bites her lip, perhaps realizing her presence (or absence) might very well be a factor in those odds.  It's not as if Chitaqua suffers from a surfeit of even semi-competent team leaders.
"Well, when you put it like that...."  Scrubbing a fist over her eyes, she takes a deep breath.  "Look, no guarantees here, but just imagining Erica having the satisfaction of standing over my dead body...." She shakes her head.  "Also," she adds in surprise, "I do feel reassured, yes.  Not sure of what, though, you know what I mean?"
"Dean has that effect on me regularly," he agrees.  "It's strange, but pleasant.  How long do you need to finish here?  You should begin preparations very soon."
"Just final check of my patients." She starts for the door.  "Look, I'll run and get Matt and Jody myself, catch them up on the way to HQ.  That okay?"
He almost makes the mistake of nodding.  "Dean's order regarding your silence on the subject of your involvement stands.  That includes your team."
"It wasn't like that," she says immediately.  "He didn't--I mean, I begged him not to tell you--anyone--and the order thing was just, he made it up to, uh...." She trails off, eyes narrowing on him before she sighs.  "Okay, which part?"
"I have no idea what you're talking about."
"You trained me twice, went on missions with me, helped me take out a child killer, and we had a lot of sex," she says, rolling her eyes.  "I know all your poker faces.  So which part did I fuck up?"
"I wasn't aware there was a specific order, just assumed.  He would have wanted more information before taking any action, and it's been rather busy recently."
"You know, that much I guessed," she says.  "Mostly, though, I think that he wanted to make sure you didn't find out before he could tell you himself."  She reaches for the doorknob. "Meet you in the Situation Room?"
"Yes," he says belatedly.  "Of course."
@@@@@@
--Day 157, continued--

Castiel considers the necessity, then turns to the back stairs.  As their commander, he should assure James and his team are doing well, and as he is here anyway, assure that Sudha is comfortable or feeling threatened so he can deal with it with prejudice; he definitely has enough minutes for that.
When he reaches the new maternity wing, the sound of cheerful voices and laughter, muffled by the walls and distance, is pleasant to hear.  Several gravid women--once stuck in series of uncomfortable rooms and moved frequently due to the number of people needing treatment--are now in residence (with their families, of course).  The benefits of privacy and comfort during such a time cannot be underestimated; when one is intent on continuing the species, distractions of any kind should be discouraged.  All know, of course, that Vera successfully performed an emergency Caesarean in the middle of the ER--the mother, Alexa, is among those in residence--but it's generally agreed that is not a recommended method of successful childbirth and should be avoided if possible.
He finds Mira sitting outside the door of Sudha's room in the only remaining chair from last night, straightening with a smile when she sees him.  "Hey, Cas."
"How is everything?"
"Good," she says cheerfully.  "We got everyone settled in the new rooms, did some fetching and carrying, and showed them how to make salt lines and everything. Uh--we didn't want them nervous, so we explained we're assigned to this wing to protect it if anything happens."  She tips her head back further, watching his expression, and he realizes she's wondering if they exceeded their authorization.  
"Excellent job," he tells her, and she relaxes.  "I suppose I should ask: is this wing defensible?"
"I pity anything coming up those stairs trying to pull any shit here, that's all I'm saying," she says with pardonable pride.  "Oh, almost forgot: that priest dropped by on his rounds and told us not to worry, anything coming out of the pipes is covered.  Turn on tap, fill cup, throw at demon: we're good."
"What priest?" he asks in confusion, then realizes he must have come with the other refugees.
"Father Francis," she answers.  "Really nice guy: almost makes me want to convert."
"What did he do to the pipes?" Blessing them is a very good idea, but it would only work until all the water in those pipes was consumed, which in the infirmary would be very quickly.
"Not the pipes themselves," she corrects him.  "The water treatment plant and the lagoon or whatever.  He was there this morning and apparently blessed everything wet in sight or something.  Also, we got word that two more pumps are up: the volunteers told sleep to fuck itself and got shit done, so town-wide drinking water is a go. For everything else...."
"There's latrines," he says in resignation, but most of his mind is involved in how much water was blessed and how long that will last. He needs to learn more about water treatment plants, soon; this would be very useful for defense.  It occurs to him that Alicia was raised Catholic; though her current spiritual situation is less certain (read: entirely unknown), the cross she usually wears is one traditionally gifted to a child upon their confirmation.  "Is he here now?"
"YMCA," she answers. "He does rounds of the refugees, kind of minister at large or something, Dolores told me. You want to talk to him?"
"I would like to thank him and ask him about his method," he agrees; it's been some time since he formally examined a priest on their spiritual calling, but it's not as if that's something you can forget.  "Where are the others?"
She tips her head down the hall.  "Dolores asked James and Zack to check the empty rooms, see if any of them are big enough for three beds.  They're getting measurements now."
"And Nate?"
"Neer said Sudha wanted him about an hour ago," she says with a fond smile.  "Nate's a baby person, did you know that?"
No, he didn't, but then again, Jaya is not exactly a standard baby. "No.  Did they say what for?"
"Probably important baby-holding duties.  Neer looked a little tired, so maybe Sudha and Rabin wanted some them-time and she wanted a nap.  That is one judgy baby, Cas; first time I got to hold her, she just stared at me like--actually," she says, as if experiencing a minor revelation, "it kind of reminded me of you when words aren't enough and disappointment must be glared into us."
"I don't--" 
Mira snorts, which he decides to ignore in the spirit of not bickering with one's subordinates.  Glancing at the door, he reluctantly decides against a professional check-in.  "Keep me informed if they need anything," he says
She nods cheerfully. "I will."
"We're up," Amanda says, sliding off the jeep as the South Gate opens and two jeeps come inside.   
As the gate closes, the jeeps turn toward them, and Dean waits as they come to a stop and Lee gets out.  "Everything okay?"
"Nothing happened, so I guess," he answers as Jane circles the jeep to join him.  "Jane marked down where we saw bodies during our circuit.  It's gonna be hell getting them all burned, but better than a strawberry spring happening with them still out here."
Dean winces: yeah, he's not gonna think about that.
"Also, Jane saw something," Lee says, and Jane stiffens, expression conveying 'what, no, God' which Lee ignores.  "Figured you might want to know."
"It was nothing," Jane says, tossing a glare up at Lee, who looks back impassively.  "I mean, really, it's not like I....  Just off the cuff to my leader making conversation during the drive thing."
Fighting a smile at Lee's impression of long-suffering patience in the face of off the cuff conversation with his second, Dean leans back against the jeep.  "Let's hear it."
With a final glare, she sighs.  "Midpoint between the South and East gate, that's where most of the Croats still living were.  Until Ana and Sean killed them all before we went out," she adds, crossing her arms over her chest unhappily.
"Assholes," Dean says consolingly as Lee's expression turns regretful: crazy, crazy militia.  "What about it?  Those were the wounded ones, right?"
"So Gretch and Brenda said when they saw them a couple of days ago," she answers.  "Not a lot of mobility--I'm pretty sure some were missing key leg parts, as in all the parts--but I've been thinking about it, and that's weird, right?  All the fighting was north of the wall, so why would they have come to the southeast?"  
Lee shrugs.  "Not like a Croat can't crawl really fast." Dean immediately dismisses the horrifying image that invokes (seriously, was Lucifer literally getting tips from horror movies?).  "I agree, though. All the good eating was to the north."
"They're Croats," Dean answers. "Thinking isn't their strong suit."
"No, but prey is a motivation," Jane counters.  "I saw bones, picked clean, and I counted four skulls in passing, but there could be more; those were the ones on top of the snow, and there's been at least a couple of falls the last two days."
Dean looks between them. "They ate the weakest."
"They were the weakest," Jane answers, and just as Dean starts to wonder if he's missing something, he remembers the first time he came here: that kid in the alley, then those others showing up almost as soon...as soon as he took the little girl bait.
Croats don't actually need to eat; it's just fun.
"They were a pack," he says experimentally, and Jane and Lee nod, like this should be obvious: okay then.  "They wouldn't eat one of their own."
"Not if they hooked up two days ago," she confirms.  "That's faster than usual, but who knows, maybe they were all friends or something before. In the shape they were in, they had to be together to keep off the other Croats, which honestly, would motivate me to make friends with my co-monsters fast."
"So what are you thinking?"
Jane makes a face, looking at Lee for reassurance. "Look, has there been any reports of people not coming back from wall duty?"
He tries not to twitch. "You think someone fell and the Croats got them?  Several someones, I mean."
"It would explain why the Croats were motivated to come halfway around the walls," Lee offers. "They'd smell them, especially if they were injured.  And why they stuck around: those bones were picked clean and cracked for marrow and brain, and even for a Croat, that takes time, especially those missing key finger parts."
Dean doesn't say they can smell if we're injured? because apparently, they can, Jesus Christ.  So he knows nothing about hospital protocols or Croats: awesome.  "No reports," he answers, which is actually worse, now that he thinks about it.  "Wall tourists, maybe?"
Jane winces, leaning against Lee for a moment.  "The wall's twenty-something miles; if you know the patrol routes and times--and have a rope and know how to use it--it wouldn't be hard to get up there.  With the snow--easy to slip."
"Or suicides," Lee says reluctantly.  "This many people...there's no way Volunteer Services can keep up with everyone."
Now Dean gets why she didn't want to say anything.  "Any kids?"
"All the skulls I saw were adult-size, if that helps."
That she saw: fuck knows what could be under the snow.  "Okay, all of you go to Admin and tell Alison what you saw, so she and Claudia can start inquiries, then food and bed.  We got a long day tomorrow. Dismissed." 
"Got it."  
After they leave, Dean finds himself searching the snowy fields; it's too dark to see much now, the moonlight hidden by the clouds, but the only shapes seem to be livestock.
"All right," he says, pushing off the jeep. "Let's move out."
Castiel just reaches the waiting room again when Karl suddenly comes down the front stairs, a limp body in his arms.  "Dolores!" he yells as he jogs into the ER.  "Someone get me a stretcher!"
Frowning, Castiel goes the door of the ER just as Karl deposits the body on a hastily acquired stretcher. Dolores appears almost immediately beside him, blocking Castiel's view.  "What the hell--"
"I don't know," he answers distractedly as Dolores takes out a penlight.  "Found her collapsed by the second floor stairs, west wing.  Haruhi, come on," he says urgently, and Dolores suddenly moves, turning Haruhi's head to the side as she vomits onto the floor.
He's not entirely surprised when Alicia joins him, a clipboard forgotten in one hand.  "I thought Haruhi was on duty--"
"She was," he answers. "Here.  She and Rosario were assigned to see who came to visit Carol."
Alicia looks blank for a moment. "On the second floor, west wing." Dropping the clipboard, she darts toward the stairs, Castiel just catching her just as she reaches the top.  When they reach Carol's room, the door's closed, and after a quick check of the knob--locked, which is unusual--Alicia pivots on the ball of her foot and kicks it open with a crack they can probably hear downstairs, gun in her hand and pointed into the room. 
"I have you," he says, coming up behind her with his own gun drawn and scanning the room as she goes to the occupied bed.  Throwing back the blankets, she hisses at the sight of Rosario curled in a fetal position on the mattress, golden brown skin faded to a sickly yellow-brown and eyes closed.  
"Dammit," she mutters, checking her pulse and airway.  "She's breathing, good.  Cas, can you--"
"I need medical personnel here immediately," he shouts, and seeing a volunteer passing at the end of the hall freeze, adds, "Go tell Dolores that Rosario is unconscious in Carol's room and needs immediate assistance!"
As Alicia sees to Rosario, Castiel searches the room, noting the faint but unmistakable signs of a struggle: a pile of clean sheets on the floor in disarray, an overturned wastebasket half-way under the bed.  Checking the waste basket, he finds two bottles and two needles inside, one broken.  
"This was used on them," he says, holding up one of the bottles, and Alicia's jaw tightens.
"She should be okay," she says, one finger resting against Rosario's pulse, and he realizes she's counting.  "Probably got her first; Haruhi had time to try and fight, probably didn't get a full hit, thank God. They could have killed them with this; there's a reason we go to school for this shit!"
Vera appears at the door with two volunteers, and Alicia retreats, reciting the stats she took, and Castiel retrieves the other bottle, handing them both to the volunteer Vera indicates.
"Got it," she says briskly, and Alicia tugs him out of the room. "Okay, get this bottle to Dolores," he hears Vera say, but Alicia is still pulling him down the hall at considerable speed and he doesn't hear the rest.
"Alicia?"
"Who would have--Micah's buddies, right, but why would they go after Carol?" Alicia asks distractedly. "Trade her for Micah, right, but how the hell would they get in the drug cabinet without anyone seeing them?"
"Not to mention how they managed to disable Rosario and Haruhi, kidnap Carol, and escape the hospital without anyone noticing," he says as patiently as he can; she, at least, can approach the standard of Dean when faced with uncertainty under normal circumstances.  "I doubt this was a kidnapping; she went willingly."
"Cas, the only thing that's keeping Carol sane right now is morphine," Alicia retorts. "And there's no way she got down to the drug cabinet and...."  She stops short.  "Anyone seen Cathy today?"
"Dolores banned her from the infirmary after what happened this morning," he answers, then looks at Alicia.  "I saw her earlier, a block and a half from our Headquarters.  She had a black eye and seemed to be limping."
"When?"
"Two, two and a half hours ago," he says.  "She lives on Baltimore; why would she be on Second?"
Her eyes widen.  "Son of a bitch!" Dragging Castiel down the stairs behind her, she shouts, "Karl!  Get a trauma team to Chitaqua's Headquarters now!"
Karl looks up from Haruhi's bed.  "What?"
"I don't know yet, but assume the worst," she responds, glancing at Castiel when they emerge onto the sidewalk.  "Cas--"
"I'm contacting them now."  Taking out the hand unit, he switches to the channel for Jeremy at the front desk. "Jeremy, report immediately," he says into the hiss, and waits five eternal seconds as they both begin to run.  "Jeremy, answer me."  If anything happened to him....  "Jeremy, please answer me."
"He's not answering," Amanda says neutrally, looking at Dean. "Second time."
Dean stares blindly at the passing landscape outside Ichabod.  "Try Cas. Now."
The lobby is echoingly empty, and that frightens him almost as much as the obviously hastily concealed signs of a struggle at the front desk: the chair is pushed against the wall, and the papers on the desk were obviously quickly picked up after being scattered and tossed into a pile.  As Alicia covers the room, he goes to check behind the desk, then in the closet, not sure how relieved he should be that there's no sign of blood.  Jeremy and Joelle would not leave voluntarily.
"Where is everyone?" Alicia mutters, gun at the ready as she glances down the hall to the mess.
"It's halfway through the third shift," he answers, reviewing the schedule with a sinking feeling.  "Those who aren't on duty are volunteering or sleeping at this time."
"Who's duty officer?"
"Kamal." Who should have been up here to check in with Jeremy at least once an hour.
Alicia jerks her head toward the basement, and nodding, he precedes her, listening carefully before reaching for the doorknob.  He's not entirely surprised to find it locked, but the flimsy mechanism breaks easily at a quick punch.
Listening carefully, he proceeds down the stairs and pauses on the last step, Alicia keeping her attention on the door behind them, but there's nothing but silence. More quickly, he jogs down the hall, past the door to the pool, and pausing at the corner, he hears a faint thud. Signaling Alicia, he emerges into the hall and sees two bodies on the floor near the interrogation room in a growing pool of blood.
"Fuck," Alicia breathes, passing him at a sprint and dropping down beside Mark.  "Cas, check Gary for me."  Taking Mark's pulse, she listens to his breathing before stripping off her jacket and flannel.  A knife appears between her fingers as she cuts the flannel into strips, binding the wound on Mark's shoulder quickly before turning her attention to his side and breathes out in relief.  "Good boy, magic bullet.  Cas?"
Crouching, Castiel presses his fingers against the cool skin of Gary's throat, but it's not needed; this close, he can see the blood-matted hair around the entrance wound above his ear.  "No."
Alicia doesn't answer as she makes a pad of another strip and presses it against Mark's side, securing it with two more strips quickly tied together.  "Through and through, looks like he tried to staunch it before he passed out," she says steadily, touching his cheek with bloody fingers and after a moment, he slits open his eyes, looking confused. "It's gonna be okay," she tells him.  "Did you think Vera needed more practice with surgery?  Because that's what she's gonna assume, and sucks to be you when you wake up."
He tries to lick bloodless lips.  "Kel said--wait.  Be fine."  He blinks back tears. "Gary...went.  With her.  He's okay."
"Got it," Alicia says briskly.  "No more talking, okay?"
Castiel looks down at Gary's still face one last time, lips parted for a last breath he'll never take.  "I'm going to check the room."
Alicia stands enough to step over his body, gun in her right hand, and places herself between Mark and the door.  "Got it," she says, keeping her left on Mark's chest--reassurance, he assumes.  "No moving: you fuck up my bandaging, you'll wish for a nice, long, peaceful coma, you know what I mean?"
As he gets closer, he notes the deadlock and hears another thud and faintly, a voice muttering elaborately filthy Nepalese profanity.  "Please stand away from the door," he says clearly before unlocking the deadlock and pushing it open to see Kamal holding a chair leg with a dangerous expression.
"Cas," he says in relief, lowering his ad hoc club, and Castiel notes the swelling of his cheek and reddened knuckles before scanning the room: Sheila and Chris holding the legs of one of the broken chairs, the table shoved on its side to provide defense; Jeremy and Joelle, however, are not present.
"Are any of you injured?" he asks; Sheila's knuckles are reddened and visibly swollen, like Kamal's, but Kamal's cheek seems the worst of it.
"We're fine," Sheila snarls.  "Kat and Kyle showed about an hour and a half ago, said you'd sent them to get Micah.  Didn't buy it, and when Kamal said he was going to talk to you, they drew on us.  Next thing we know, we hear Cathy in the hall telling Mark and Gary to throw down their weapons."
"She had a gun to Jeremy's head," Kamal says quietly, and Castiel stills.  
"Joelle?"
"Kept her head," Sheila says with a flicker of approval.  "Even when Kat put a gun to her head and got Jeremy to disarm us while Kyle watched Mark and Gary in the hall.  Cas, we could have taken them, but Cathy used herself as a bullet shield."
"We don't shoot civilians," he affirms, deliberately not thinking of the feel of Gary's too-cool throat and Jeremy with a gun to his head.  "Where are Jeremy and Joelle now?"
"They took them, I guess," Kamal says, and his expression tells Castiel he won't like what he hears next. "They ordered me and Sheila and Chris to the other side of the room--I’m not sure what happened, but Kat shut the door suddenly and then we heard gunshots. He takes a deep breath.  "Cas--"
"Son of a bitch!" they hear Alicia say, and darting by Castiel, Kamal freezes to see Alicia bending over Mark.  "Mark, you didn't lose that much blood, stop being so goddamn dramatic!" She glances back at them.  "Someone get upstairs to meet Karl's team and get them down here.  Tell them to run."
"I'll go," Sheila says, voice thick as she jogs past them and down the hall. Coming up beside Kamal, Chris looks at Alicia working on Mark, then at Gary.
"He's dead," Castiel says flatly. "Kamal, call everyone in immediately; Headquarters has been compromised.  You and Sheila are to secure all exits; no one is to leave this building."  He hands Kamal the hand unit.  "Contact Dean and tell him everything that happened here and this as well: Cathy assisted Carol to escape the infirmary, and Haruhi and Rosario are being treated for a potential sedative overdose.  When you're done, contact Manuel and Teresa, Alison, and also Maimouna; she knows Joelle was here, and she needs to know immediately."
"Dean's going to want to come back--"
"Tell him to continue as planned," Castiel interrupts with a start of horror at the idea of Dean returning now.  "He may be the only one who can stop this now, whatever it is. You're in command; when at least two teams have returned, have them begin a full search of every room floor by floor.  Dismissed."
Kamal nods, starting down the hall at a run.
"...down here," Castiel hears Sheila saying, followed by the dull sound of feet, and like an expected and deeply desired miracle, Karl appears, bag in hand and taking in the scene at a glance.
"Mark needs blood, soon," Alicia states after reciting off statistics without taking a breath as he kneels across from her.  "There may be more upstairs.  You got this one or need my help?"
"Got it," Karl says, eyes flickering to Gary and grimacing at her quick headshake.  "Sree, take Alicia's place.  Lois, Valli, help me get him stable then go after them.  Mark, buddy, don't move; you're not helping."
"Thank you," she whispers, wiping her hands on her jeans as she gets to her feet and follows Castiel.  "Cas, Drew and Phil...they're her team.  She wouldn't...."
Kat put a gun to the head of a seventeen year old girl with the intention of using it if she wasn't obeyed; that everyone obeyed her means that they had no doubt of her intentions.
"She would," he says, and Alicia takes out her gun again and starts down the hall.  "Chris, accompany Valli and Lois upstairs when they're ready."
There's no sign of anything amiss when they reach the second floor.  Going down the quiet hall, Alicia doesn't bother to check the closed door, barely pausing as she breaks the simple lock with a single kick and going inside.  
Coming in behind her, he sees Drew slumped against the left wall on a sleeping bag, the position of his arms behind him indicating they're bound and a torn bedsheet wrapped inexpertly around his thigh that's worryingly red.  Phil is curled on his side with his head in Drew's lap, arms also bound behind him and frighteningly still.  
"Drew," Alicia says coaxingly, kneeling beside him, and his eyes flicker open, dazed but alert: only blood loss, he hopes.  
"Don't move," Alicia orders, checking the bandage with careful fingers as Castiel confirms Phil is breathing normally, pulse beating reassurance against his thumb.  "Maybe nicked the femoral, but that's it," she says after a moment, looking Drew in the eye. "Good job keeping still: move that too much, could have ripped it open, and for fuck's sake, don't move now."
"I'll deal with the restraints," Castiel says after cutting Phil's, and she shifts over to concentrate on Drew's leg and give him space to work.  "Drew, can you feel your fingers?"
He nods, wetting his lips. "Wrist and above the elbow.  One--one diagonal.  They were in a hurry.  Ran out of zip ties."
"Excellent."  Reaching behind Drew, he maps them by touch without moving him and risking jostling his leg unnecessarily, visualizing their locations, then takes out his knife. "Continue to be very still; you're bleeding enough already." 
Drew snorts, sighing in relief when he's free.  Checking his wrists--Drew didn't make the mistake of fighting them unnecessarily and doing himself damage, but the reddened strips of skin will result in deep bruising--Castiel watches him flex weakly, satisfied. "What happened?"
"Kat and Kyle," Drew spits as Alicia cuts a long strip lengthwise and makes a knot in one end.  "Cathy was downstairs, wanted to talk to Kat, and she wouldn't.  Wouldn't leave them alone.  Jeremy asked for help--" He hisses, face ashen.
"It can wait," Alicia says, looping the sheet around Drew's upper thigh above the wound and twisting the ends together. "Cas, I need something...."
Getting up, he checks their bags and quickly finds a sharpening stone in Phil's, long and narrow enough for a tourniquet.  Bringing it to her, he kneels beside Phil, hesitant to do anything before Alicia can examine him.
"Can't wait," Drew whispers as Alicia tightens the tourniquet, sweat standing out on his forehead.  "Gonna be out in a few minutes.  Phil went down to talk to her; next thing I know, Kat pulls a knife on me." He licks his lips, gritting his teeth for a long second.  "Stupid: should have checked her after Sarah left.  Went for my leg, no hesitation: guess I'm lucky my throat wasn't in her way."
Alicia loosens the tourniquet, eyes unreadable as her lips move in a silent count.  
"Next thing I know, Kyle's dragging Phil in here, said--" His eyes clear, pain erased for sheer rage.  "That he didn't hit him that hard."  He meets Alicia's eyes. "Bandaged me up with Kat holding a gun to my head, though, so there's that."
"He's been out the whole time?"
Drew nods tiredly, and Alicia looks at Castiel: that would be a very long time for a concussion.  "Two hours, maybe a little less."
"Trade with me," she says, and Castiel steps carefully to Drew's side and takes the tourniquet as Alicia takes his place by Phil.  Fingers light, she checks Phil's head carefully, mapping his skull with the tips of her fingers.
"Over here," they hear Chris say, followed by quickly moving feet.  "Fourth door on the right."
Valli and Lois appear at the door, taking in the scene at a glance; Lois joins Castiel as Alicia relates Drew's condition, then stills in her examination of Phil.
"Grade Three Concussion from blunt force trauma to the left parietal," she says to Valli.  "Open wound, about three, three and a half inches, possibly cracked his skull but can't tell for sure.  He was moved, not sure how far: probably happened in the lobby and carried up here after. He's been out about two hours."  She meets Cas's eyes. "Probably got hit with the butt of a gun from behind, as cowards like doing that kind of thing."
Kneeling by Phil, Valli bends down to examine the wound before her hands shift to Phil's neck, quick and gentle.  "I think his neck's fine.  Lois take over for Cas and call the infirmary: we need all the help we can get. Cas, Alicia, we're going to have to move Phil; I need you to help me keep him flat and his head immobile if we can."
"Let me get a sleeping bag down," Alicia says, clearing an empty space on the floor and spreading out the sleeping bag carefully before coming back.  "Okay, walk us through."
Valli gives precise instructions to them both--with all the volunteers, it's probably second nature now--and Alicia, at least, knows exactly what to do.  In a few moments, Phil is flat on the floor, the blood-clotted hair clearly visible in the dim light  As Valli examines Phil again, Alicia helps Drew lie down while Lois speaks to someone in the infirmary on her hand unit.
"Chris," Castiel says.  "Stay with Lois and Valli--anything they need, make sure they have it."
"Yes, sir," he says, holstering his gun before going to Valli, who gives him a calmly professional smile as Alicia talks quietly to Drew, only looking up when the hand unit comes to life in Lois's hand and she places the earbud back in her ear.
"Chess is coming with two more teams and an ambulance," she says after listening for a moment.  "Lewis left the YMCA infirmary with Usha and is on his way to help Dolores and Vera prep for surgery."  
"What do you need me to do?" Alicia asks as Lois opens her bag.
"We got this," Valli squeezes Alicia's shoulder.  "Go do what you need to."
"Thanks," she whispers, getting unsteadily to her feet, and Castiel follows her into the hall, watching her lean back against the wall, head bent.  Her tank top, like her hands and the thighs of her jeans, are soaked in blood.  "Why didn't I see it?"
"Alicia--"
"I was distracted," she interrupts. "Cathy and Kat only have two things in common: Carol and a reason to make a deal.  What the hell did he do to Carol to get her to recruit for him?  That's why she wanted to make friends with Kat and Cathy, have a nice, long bonding night last night for the hard sell.  But why would Kyle...." She trails off, looking sick.  "Cas, people don't trade their souls to get back an ex, do they? That wouldn't...wouldn't work, right?"
"People will try and trade their souls for anything," he answers.  "Earlier, Kyle told me that Micah was going to trade you to Erica for the nullification of his contract.  When Dean spoke to Micah, he confessed that he'd planned just that but changed his mind when he saw you outside the walls.  He must have made a second deal with Erica that night."
Alicia's eyes widen.  "Last time he saw me before then, I was putting a knife in him; how the hell did he think he was going to get me to Erica?"
Anyone with any sense of self-preservation would assume--correctly--that being forced to leave Chitaqua at the point of a knife would be an indication of hostility.  Castiel remembers that interview with Carol: tired, angry, defensive, afraid...and the unexpected venom that she directed at Alicia.  As if, perhaps, Micah took the time to visit her in the infirmary and explain his intentions and reasons just before they arrived to question her.  That does sound like something he would do.
"I'm going after them."  Alicia pushes off the wall and starts down the hall.  "Cathy doesn't know what the hell she's doing, fuck knows what Micah did to Carol to get her to do this, Kat's crazy--"
"--Kyle was misled, and Micah is probably indeed desperate regarding his soul and not thinking clearly," he interrupts, and she stops short.  "And lest I forget, Erica was traumatized by the death of her entire family and losing her child."
She turns around, jaw tight.  "I'm not excusing them--"
"Yes, you are."
"They fucked up, fine!  So the fuck what?  My job," she continues flatly, "is to save people; if I'm supposed to pass judgment on whether they deserve it first, consider this a blanket statement for everyone, forever: they deserve to be saved.  Anything else?" 
"This would be how, yes."  Alicia opens her mouth.  "How to get you to Erica, I mean.  You do realize this is a trap? Erica isn't stupid; she manipulated you and Micah two years ago and she's doing it right now.  No matter what second deal Micah made, she wants you there, and Joelle and Jeremy were taken to makes sure we let you go."
She grimaces.  "I just needed another minute."
"Yes, you're distracted, so you said," he says acidly, starting down the hall.  "I need more weapons." 
Alicia jogs to catch up.  "You're going?  With me, I mean."
"Of course I’m going with you," he replies, and that's the end of conversation until they reach the door to the back stairwell.  "Go to your room and get everything you can comfortably carry, then we'll...."  Yes, that.  "Kamal is searching the building and he's good at it."
She understands immediately. "Your balcony?"
"I've never attempted thirty feet with the expectation of fighting afterward," he admits, hoping she understands the unspoken 'or at all, at least voluntarily, and this would not be the time to try'.
She nods as she opens the door.  "I got twenty feet of rope in my room. Project I was working on."
He wonders if it involves a net.  "That should work."
Dean lowers the walky-talky and finishes with a voice so steady it's like it's not his own. "Dolores sent over an ambulance; they'll all be in the infirmary in a few minutes.  Mark's going into surgery immediately; Valli's not sure if Drew's leg will need more than sutures, but he lost enough blood to need a transfusion.  Phil's--" He didn't like the way Kamal skipped over detail other than Dolores was going to need to examine him.  "--going, too.  Kamal has Headquarters locked down and started a full sweep."  He makes himself say the next part. "Mortuary's on its way. For Gary."
Amanda nods, closing her eyes, and he sees Joe cover his face.  From the front seat is silence, but Dean can't imagine how Sarah feels right now; Mel's arm is the only visible sign, stretched across the seats toward her.
"Kamal's pretty sure that Kat and company took Jeremy and Joelle with them."  Joelle's a local; threatening her may get them to open the gate, assuming Ichabod residents are stationed there.  Or people with souls, who aren't down with watching anyone shoot a terrified seventeen year old girl.  "Manuel and Teresa are sending teams to check the North and East gates."
"Cas is going to kill them," Mel says very softly, not without satisfaction.  "Jeremy's got a scratch on him...."
"We need to--" He stops there, feeling helpless.  If Cas hadn't gone to the infirmary...the part of Dean that knows none of them are in Cas's class doesn't stop the relief that he wasn't there when Kat and Kyle pulled their little coup. Especially when at least one of them isn't above going for your back.
"I told Kat everything," Sarah says tonelessly.  "I thought it might help to know we were getting rid of Erica.  She seemed interested," she adds.  "I thought it was a good sign.  I should have--"
"Don't," he says roughly, hoping she takes that in the spirit given.  Scowling, he realizes he's rubbing his palm against his jeans and makes a fist, ignoring the flare of sharp pain from wrist to shoulder.  "No way anyone could have seen this coming." 
"They must have planned this last night," Amanda says.  "The rest I get, but Kyle--what the fuck is he doing?  It's not like can sell his soul for Alicia's affections!"
"No," Dean agrees. "But he may think he can buy them."
"Go," Alicia says once she's in the jeep and no longer hiding in the alley one street down from their Headquarters.  "Where--"
"It was parked out of sight of Headquarters," he answers.  "That was convenient."  Going all the way to the garage and stealing a jeep--if there is another one available--would have taken far too much time and been rather awkward to explain.
When they reach the West Gate, Castiel sees patrol waiting for them and wonders uncomfortably if Dean left orders before he left not to allow him to leave.  As Hans jogs toward them, the others spread out behind them in a loose semicircle, guns ready, while others stand ready with bags of salt.  
Coming to a stop, Castiel rolls down the window as Hans reaches them.  "We just got word: the North Gate was compromised."
"Casualties?"
"Three," he answers grimly.  "Five injured, not too bad; made them all come off the wall and took their walky-talkies.  One came to report, but on foot; it took her a while and she took a good knock on the head.  Said several people and two jeeps, but she's pretty shook up, couldn't tell us much more.  Anthi's team is there, but they're concentrating on the injured right now, so that's pretty much all we know for sure.  Guessing you're going out after them?"
"Yes," he says; Jeremy and Joelle are alive.  Surely if they were among those at the North Gate, Anthi would have sent word.
"Good," he says with unsurprising ferocity, glancing back at something before nodding. "Okay, we're ready."
"Don't open the gate for anyone until we return," Castiel says.  "I should be visually identified before my verbal confirmation to open the gate is accepted.  If those don't match, shoot until you run out of bullets."
"Got it.  Good hunting," he says, stepping back and signaling the gate.  "Go slow so we can fix the lines the second you pass."
Castiel nods, keeping them in his rearview mirror, and isn't sure he breathes until they're outside and the gate is closed, all salt lines fixed.
Alicia stares at the road before them, naked trees like blackened limbs reaching for the sky.
"The shelter at the base of the hill, Station Zero," she says finally.  "Carol's in bad shape, she can't stand in the snow forever waiting, and I don't see this going well if Erica thought she had to depend on everyone remembering directions in an area they don't know.  This thing needed accessibility and flexible timing.  Make it easy on us."
Castiel nods, putting the jeep in drive.  "It's a very convenient trap."
"What do you mean you can't find them?" Dean shouts, ignoring Joe and Amanda jumping.  
"Dean, all I can tell you is that they aren't in the building." Kamal sounds harassed enough for Dean to believe him.  "I had every door covered, I swear, and all the windows are sealed, so how they got out without anyone seeing them, I don't know."
He doesn't need to ask Kamal to check their room for a stripped bed and a suspicious trail of knotted sheets; he assumes if Cas didn't jump it outright, he and Alicia had the sense to find a goddamn rope.  Probably.  "I think I know."

"Dean, uh...I think--"

Dean closes his eyes and finishes it for him.  "They went after Erica, I figured out that part!  What about Matt and Jody?"
"They reported a few minutes ago," Kamal reports grimly. "They had no idea there was even a plan, much less that they were part of it."
He tries to think; what went down in the infirmary interrupted the 'send for Matt and Jody', fine, but Christ, Cas and Alicia could have detoured to get their goddamn backup.  It's on the tip of his tongue to tell Kamal to send Matt and Jody anyway to find them and just barely stops himself.

"Matt wants to go--"

"No."  Erica's already got two hostages and two people to use them against; there's no fucking way adding two more on either side of that equation will improve anything, especially if Cas and Alicia don't know they're coming.  "Tell Matt and Jody that's an order."
"Yes, sir," Kamal says without a trace of irony.  "We finished searching, but only a few people were here and they were sleeping from second shift.  Damiel's team went straight to bed when they got back.  If shots had been fired anywhere but the basement...."
"Yeah."  Kat and Kyle weren't stupid about that part.  "Keep me informed."  Belatedly, he realizes that Sarah's starting to slow down, and looking at Amanda, sees her unbuckle her seatbelt.  They're past the East Gate.  "All right," he says, tucking the walky-talky in his jacket. "Let's get this show on the road."
The jeep by the shelter would have been confirmation enough, but it's not needed; the floodlights have been turned on to illuminate the snow-covered road, last used to help desperate people traveling up the hill to Ichabod, now for Erica to perform what appears to be a very anticipated show.  It also has the benefit of making the dense brush on either side of the road nearly impossibly dark, which he assumes was a factor: very useful when hiding your minions from sight.
As they slow, Castiel scans the clearing: to the left of the road and up to their ankles in snow, Jeremy, Joelle, and--interestingly, Kyle--are under Micah's gun-enforced supervision, just short of the thick brush; Kat, expression unmistakably exultant, is standing halfway between them and Erica, with Carol in her wheelchair beside her; and Cathy is stopped just a few feet from Erica, standing in the middle of the road as if waiting for them.  Which she is, of course.
As they come to a stop, Alicia leans forward, hand on the dashboard.  "What the hell happened to Micah?"
Micah as he'd seen him in the lobby of Headquarters had been very different from as he'd appeared in the interrogation room, but there's no comparison to now; the usually pale face is flushed with more than just cold, and his coordination seems questionable, every movement too sharp, which is something of a concern when he's holding a firearm.  Worse, it's clear he's trying to concentrate on what's going on here, blinking rapidly, but even as Castiel watches, his head jerks around to study empty space suspiciously--do you hear that?
"It apparently started a few hours ago."  Of all the things they need, Micah becoming an even more unstable quantity isn't one of them.  "It seems to have become worse."
"Teresa said geas-telephone could go anywhere, but I didn't see 'acting crazy before a catalyst event' coming." Her lips tighten as Micah's gun traces an erratic parabola when his attention wanders again. "Especially armed."
Cutting the engine, Castiel takes a deep breath.  "I need to apologize to Dean; this isn't even an attempt at a plan.  At best, it's a series of actions that we may or may not be able to perform in any possible conjunction and no hope of order."
"I know," she answers, frowning out the windshield. "How many do you think are with her?"
"If she's not stupid, everyone she could get," he answers.  "Which wouldn't actually be many if this isn't authorized: only those--"
"From Chitaqua," Alicia finishes for him, nodding. " "How long until Dean reaches--"
"By now, Kamal's reported he can't find us, and Dean is doubtless either almost at the Crossroad or waiting for Crowley now," he answers after doing some quick calculations.  "The other option would be he followed us here, but in that case, he'd have arrived already."
She exchanges a glance with him and he nods; now is as good a time as any.  "Okay, I keep Erica distracted until you signal, then exorcism on the fly, everyone goes home happy--"
"That choose to come with us," he says, and Alicia reluctantly nods.
"All right, let's get started."  She reaches for the door, adding, "I wonder how long she would have kept them waiting just in case I showed up?"
Startled, he starts to correct her, but she's already out of the jeep.  Getting out, he meets Alicia in front of the hood.  The lights are doing an excellent job of both illuminating the area and far harder to search the darkness outside for her companions.  
They're halfway to Erica before Micah snaps into the present, focusing on them and then Alicia in surprise; apparently their very subtle approach down the road from Ichabod in sight of all and sundry escaped his (very questionable) attention.  "What are you doing here?" he demands, gun almost but not quite wavering from his hostages as he jerks his gaze to Erica.  "What the fuck's going on?"
Ignoring him, Erica smiles at them--or more specifically, at Alicia.  "Look who joined the party."
"Get out of here!" Micah shouts, turning to wave his gun toward the road in an uncomfortable echo of Jeffrey in the clearing that day. Castiel isn't sure if he should be disappointed or not that Kyle--who is both physically closest and has proven to have no inhibitions regarding attacking someone's unprotected back--doesn't take advantage of the situation and try to disarm him.  A quick check of Jeremy and Joelle shows her gripping Jeremy's hand tightly enough to keep him from trying despite the greater distance and almost inevitable failure; excellent, someone here is exercising good sense, at least.
Jeremy catches his eye, staring at him for a long moment before looking toward the brush roughly ten feet away; concentrating, Castiel just makes out a human shape.  Catching Jeremy's gaze again, he nods, and Jeremy's gaze fixes on a different point behind Micah: two and three.  So two of them are thinking: excellent.
"Sorry I'm late," Alicia says brightly as Jeremy indicates the fourth, fifth, and sixth in a direct line behind Kat and Carol.  "Casualties, injuries, had to do some triage and stop some bleeding, you know how it goes."  Alicia changed clothes in her room and made some attempt to wash her hands, but even Castiel can see the blood beneath her fingernails, a stripe below her chin, and decorating her wrist beneath the open cuff of her flannel.
Kyle shifts in place, looking sick; Kat seems deaf.  Erica's grin widens. "I can help with that."
"I bet you can."  Alicia stops short in the middle of the road and unexpectedly laughs. "You never took me to the Crossroads," she explains.  "Gotta admit, I was a little curious what it was like.  Less lights, more guns to the head, am I right?"
Erica cocks her head. "Why are you here?  Micah was supposedly very certain he couldn't persuade you to do as you were told.  That would be a first, but--"
"I got such a nice invitation, how could I refuse?" Alicia's gaze flickers to Jeremy and Joelle, then Cathy and Kat, before inexplicably lingering on Carol, who doesn't seem able to meet her eyes.  "Come on, Erica, you hate him; of all the people to give a 'get-your-soul-back' card, he wouldn't be anyone's first choice."
"I received an offer I couldn't, in good conscience, refuse," Erica answers.  "Fifty souls in two days?  That's a record for a Crossroads demon; they couldn't pull that off when Pompey burned."
"The Lares send their regards to the Crossroad," Castiel interjects, but Alicia looks as shaken as he feels: fifty souls.
"Don't suppose you'd tell us how you pulled that off?" Alicia asks.  "Or prove it?  Just wondering."
"For the first, no, but the second...." She thinks.  "Check out south of the wall. You may have to fight the Croats for what's left.  I call those--"
"Those that said no," Alicia interrupts.  "Ever heard of originality?"
"Ever heard why fix what isn't broken?"
"Listen to me," Micah says urgently.
"Shut up," Alicia says, never looking away from Erica.  "So what's the deal now?  All of them for me?  Tell me you have something better than that."
"I'm not that stupid."  She snaps her fingers, and Castiel feels a surge of nausea and vertigo before he's realizes he's frozen, Ruby's knife only inches from his hand.  Eyes darting around the field, everyone in his line of sight is equally still.  "Except you," she adds, and Micah tumbles to the ground, gun torn from his hand.  "Now we'll talk. It's been a while, hasn't it, Stephanie?"
"Christ, what's he waiting for?" Amanda says, eyeing the mound of Crowley-bait in frustration. "We got demons for him to punish. Should be his favorite thing."
Dean starts to answer before going still at the flare of raw panic, closing his throat and cramping every muscle from sympathetic reaction: Cas.
"Dean?" Joe says worriedly, and from the way he says it, distraction isn't gonna cut it.
"Something's wrong," he manages to grind out, understatement of the goddamn century.  This is bullshit: there's no way to work out what the fuck's happening to him from here, but blind, mindless horror tells him it's not good, and worse, Cas isn't thinking, isn't even able to.  Stop.  Control it.  Like that shit's going to help.  "We need to--"
"Dean--"
"It's Cas!" he snaps; if he could move his legs, he'd already be running.  "Something..."
"Dean, the best thing we can do now is get Crowley," Joe says ruthlessly. "We don't even know where Cas and Alicia are."
"They're at Zero." He tries to think reassuring thoughts toward Cas, but it feels a lot like someone saying they'll direct positive vibes or something; this is bullshit, what's Erica doing to him?  "Fuck this, we can't wait--"
"Dean," Amanda says in the calm voice of someone staring at their own death. "We got company."
Crowley raises an eyebrow, and Dean's never hated that smile more.  "Dean Winchester," he purrs.  "So nice to see you."
He's in a concrete box and can't get out, a box, a coffin, a body that won't move....

Stop.

Castiel sucks in a breath--he can breathe, yes, he can feel his chest move, but nothing else will, can, does, he can't can't can't....for a second, he sees Crowley smiling genially at him and does the only thing he can do: he punches him.
Except that wasn't real: he can't move, can't breathe, he's in a box, a coffin, a dead and rotting body that won't.....
Control it, and he blinks slowly, forcing himself to focus.  Blinking--he can still do that, excellent, and breathe, that, too--there's room to think again, and he examines what's holding him. He's not the only one; Jeremy and Joelle, Carol, Cathy, and Kyle, all show signs of similar immobility, though Alicia and--unfortunately, Micah--do not.  He tests the pressure surrounding him--it's malleable, nothing at all like a box or a corpse--but there's very little give.  He'd be interested in finding out how Erica did it--and where on earth she acquired the power, for that matter--but Micah's standing again, snow clinging to his jeans and looking considerably less sane, which is saying a great deal.  
"Steph, stop it!" Micah pleads desperately; his balance seems questionable, and there's a definite sway when he tries to take a step.  More importantly, however, he seems to have lost his gun, which is perhaps the only thing that's improved the situation.  "You're not part of this, I made sure of it!  She can't change the deal now!"
"You remember the first time we got drunk?" Erica asks, smiling at Alicia like the woman she'd once been.  "It was late, we came back from that shitty patrol, you stole two bottles of whiskey from Terry's cabin and got me drunk--"
"Didn't." Alicia's lips tighten. "Nice stroll down memory lane, but--"
"Maybe I didn't fight too hard," Erica agrees, taking a step toward Alicia, red skirt flaring around her bare legs.  "Micah was doing extra time on sewer duty for pissing off Stan, so we had the whole night.  Remember?"
Alicia nods jerkily.  "Yeah, I--Erica, what--"
"We sat on the floor in my room and did shots until we couldn't see straight," Erica continues, taking another step.  "Never been that drunk in my life: half way through, went to the bathroom to throw up, then came back for round two."
Despite herself, Alicia's lips curve in a reluctant smile.  "Crawled back, you mean."
Erica laughs. "Like you were any better.  Who was in there right after me for her turn at the toilet?  And who got you a blanket so you could moan on the floor in comfort?"
Alicia ducks her head.  "Erica--"
"I told you about--about those two days," Erica says, and Alicia's head jerks up.  "Before they got me out.  I never told anyone, not until you."  She shakes her head ruefully. "Probably don't remember--"
"I remember," Alicia says softly.
"And I told you about my baby," Erica says, and alarmed, Castiel realizes Erica's less than ten feet from Alicia.  "The names I picked--"
"Richard or Sophia," Alicia finishes for her.  "Still not feeling Richard, gotta admit."
Erica rolls her eyes.  "You have no taste."  Alicia laughs, expression softening. "I told you how I lost my baby in that basement."
Alicia nods tightly.
"Then you told me," Erica continues more softly, "how you lost yours."
Dean will later remind himself that Crowley really didn't expect it, but he's gotta be honest; that's not any kind of excuse for not even ducking.
Rubbing his knuckles, Dean ignores Amanda and Joe torn between keeping their guns trained on Crowley and looking at him like he's an idiot. Not like it's not true; that was stupid, it may have fucked everything up, but watching Crowley getting up from the dirt--he's gonna enjoy that.  
"I take it," Crowley says, straightening to study Dean with open curiosity, "that this isn't a social call?"
"Amanda, Joe," he says, never looking away, "back to the gate."
"You've gotta be kidding," Amanda starts, and then there are two audible thumps, and Dean just stops himself from flinching.  He's gonna pay for that.
"I assumed the problem was the audience," Crowley says, looking utterly comfortable in his stolen human skin in the middle of the remains of what was once a town.  Cocking his head, he studies Dean, eyes narrowing thoughtfully.  "I've been curious about our replacement savior," he remarks.  "Interesting."
"I don't have time for this."
"You have plenty of time," Crowley demurs, looking amused by something.  "Could be forever, for all I know. Tick-tock, we're--"
"--on the clock," Dean finishes for him, words out before he even realizes what he's saying, familiar on his tongue.  "Where did you--"
"I assume you're here to do the sensible thing and deal for your life," Crowley continues smoothly.  "Out of here, back to Chitaqua--you left it long enough, but better late than never, I suppose.  I'll even throw in your little militia; I'm feel generous."
"That's not why I'm here," Dean says, forcing himself to focus and is rewarded by a brief but definite look of utter shock on Crowley's face.  "I'm here for you, actually.  Professional courtesy."
"Professional…you must forgive me, is there something wrong with the water in Chitaqua?" Crowley asks sincerely.  "First Cas, then you--"
"I'm offering you your life," Dean says patiently.  "I won't make this offer again."
Crowley's smile doesn't change, but his gaze sharpens.  "Lovely walls you have here."
"The demon blood thing, yeah, that too," Dean tells him.  "But dude, making out with my boyfriend?  Dick move."
This time, Crowley can't hide his surprise. "What?"
"Hindbrain," Dean says.  "Talk about a rewarding way to get a revelation. Money, power, sex: we do crazy shit for all of it, but love?  We'll destroy the world for it and never count the cost.  I sold my soul for my brother; you think I wouldn't hunt you down for Cas?  Obvious shit here, Crowley.  Six year old test: you're failing it."
"Are you insane?" Crowley asks in genuine worry.  "I didn't--you're upset about--"
"Jealousy."  
Crowley stills.  
"We'll destroy the world for love, but jealousy, that shit we'll take ourselves out just to prove we will, and take everyone else with us.  What's a soul," he continues flatly, "compared to proving you should be loved best?"
Crowley's mouth quirks.  "Oldest story in Creation, isn't it?"
"The first story," he agrees.  "Cas was so sure it was what he was, but it was about who; Dean played favorites and didn't bother even trying to hide it." They didn't know--they couldn't know--that was one competition no one sane wants to win, not the way Dean Winchester showed he cared.  "They didn't just want to kill him.  They wanted to be him."
Christ, it would figure it took him this long to recognize what he saw when Erica looked at Cas, looked at him, and match that to what she told them.  Her reasons, the other team leaders' reasons--they might have included Lucifer, but that script was all about Dean and what they weren't and wanted to be, so much that they sold their souls to try and get it.
"We didn't do anything but appear on request," Crowley says.  "They came to us."
"And found out some things can't be bought." The Crossroads could make them faster, stronger, luckier--Christ, he should have figured it out then, Micah said it straight out--better shots, but they couldn't make them into fallen angels in a human body; they could be loyal, devoted, obedient, ruthless, but they couldn't be someone else.
"We did the best we could with what we had to work with, but we couldn't make them something they weren't already.  They were desperate enough to take it, but living with second best seemed to have taken a toll on what was already a fairly precarious hold on sanity.  Which I assume is why, for the first time in history, there was quite literally a line waiting for us at the Crossroads."
"At the point of a gun."
"I don't make the rules," Crowley answers. "I just enjoy the technicalities." He makes a moue of distaste.  "I must admit, it does take some of the shine off when you can't tell the difference between them before and after the rack."
"How many took the deal?"
"I don't know," he answers, and if Dean's not crazy--which is a real possibility now--there's regret in his voice.  "Dean's team leaders did know what they were doing when they made contract, at least. All names are locked until all their contracts are complete, for reasons you can guess."
"Dean was torturing demons," he says, too numb to feel anything, even horror.  "They couldn't risk the one who made their contract might end up in Chitaqua."  Or a too-early death of one of their own telling all their secrets under Dean's knife.  "Not bad."
"Smart boy," Crowley says approvingly.  "They were very good at making terms, though sadly shortsighted when it came to anything closer to home.  I don't know what Dean was thinking with them, not keeping better control of his pets."
"Not like you're doing better."  Finally, Crowley drops pretense, eyes narrowing.  "Either you're slipping, you're scared of baby demons still bloody behind the ears from the rack, or you're giving Erica--and all her buddies--enough rope to hang themselves because you want to know who else signed the contract, and their owner is one of the names.  Trying to get his attention?  It's gotta be killing you to not know everything about your own contract."
Crowley doesn't smile.  "I wondered," he says slowly, "who could so easily put Castiel on his knees again that even he didn't realize he was there."
"Experiments in contract bending are done for the day," Dean tells him.  "Get your problem children and make an example of them before anyone else gets any bright ideas.  Whoever owns them's not showing, and this shit's getting old."
"That's an excellent idea," Crowley agrees.  "But not until she's done. Erica was brilliant--if somewhat crude in her methods--when she was still human, and I want to see if she can pull this off.  Let's find out, shall we?"
When Alicia arrived at Chitaqua, she gave Dean a tattered brown envelope with three pieces of identification: a driver's license, a birth certificate, and a social security card.  Chuck and Castiel traced the number to Texas and two separate cases: one recent, coded TP-40, the earlier one, TP-90.
As he discovered during their research, Medicaid is divided into many dozens of programs, each assigned a program code (also referred to as Type Program or TP) and arranged in a baffling but rigid hierarchy.  Those codes differentiate between different Medicaid programs, each with different eligibility requirements for approval.  Medicaid, type program 90 was one of four codes associated with children in foster care.
Five years before Alicia came to Chitaqua, the archived TP-90 Medicaid case for Bethany Anne Smith--denied unable to locate--was imported into the new TIERS system by a state employee associated with Data Integrity, a unit with full read-write access to the entire massive HHSC database.  Two weeks later, a woman using that name filed a petition for a change of name in Dallas, Texas; when it was approved, Alicia Matthews applied for a driver's license in Corpus Christi with a listed address of a newly rented efficiency apartment. 
Over the next three months, Alicia Matthews completed a GED, enrolled in the local community college, used something called CLEP and AP to gain credit for twenty-four hours of classwork, and took six online classes during two summer sessions  (Philosophy 101, Introduction to Speech, Introduction to Psychology, French III, and World Literature I and II).  During the fall semester, she completed twenty hours more, received an associate degree in nursing with a 4.0 GPA, was admitted to Phi Theta Kappa (whatever that is), and gained certification as an LVN.
(At the time, Castiel was impressed with her ability to create such excellent forgeries; now, knowing Alicia better, he suspects the only thing she needed to forge was the name she used to do it.)
A month later after graduation, Alicia became a self-employed home health care worker that specialized in the care of the elderly, and for over three years, she regularly paid income tax for non-existent income gained from not actual employment with a variety of actual elderly residents--all dead well before they acquired her services--on the Gulf coast.
(Chuck said, incredulous: "She paid taxes on her fake income early, itemized everything, and didn't even use an accountant?  Who does that?"
Now Castiel knows: someone who needed not only an identity, but a thorough paper trail should anyone investigate it.)
Alicia had a library card for two local libraries with a regular checkout history and no fines and an active Amazon account with a purchase history almost entirely ebooks (Regency and paranormal romance novels (for irony is apparently not dead), a massive collection of mysteries (Agatha Christie was a favorite), a variety of self-help books, and every book on the New York Times bestseller list), a variety of PC games, Android apps for a T-Mobile phone with a Texas prefix, H&R Block tax software, and roughly six thousand mp3s in a variety of genres (including a large selection of French pop).
She had one credit card and one debit card associated with a small local credit union with an excellent online user interface, and there were regular weekly deposits that matched her self-employment records and IRS tax returns showing an eight and a half percent increase every year up to the last.  All bills were auto-deducted--rent, utilities, cell phone, and interestingly, a monthly tithe of one-tenth of her net income to the local Catholic Church and another tenth split between three women's shelters--and she never missed a payment or overdrew her account.  Her credit rating was excellent, her practice seemed to be increasing (all elderly, but more importantly, all several years beyond simply dead), she had a 401K that received one-tenth of her gross income, and a self-managed stock portfolio that Castiel--as a former stockbroker--was very aware was doing incredibly, one might say even eerily, well.
Eleven months before Alicia arrived at Chitaqua, she was approved for a second Medicaid case, coded TP-40.  This was followed by a twenty-percent increase in her weekly deposit, one that was repeated weekly in slowly increasing amounts for the next seven months.
Nine months before Alicia arrived at Chitaqua, she applied for a mortgage and her weekly deposit doubled; one month later, she was pre-approved for a mortgage on a two bedroom, two bathroom property with a view of the bay, and she renewed the lease on her apartment for only six months.  That was when other responsibilities interfered with further research; Dean didn't care, training was about to begin, and Castiel set it aside and never thought of it again, or of that second, later case and its associated TP code.
Not until today.
Alicia said she was on leave from work; her supervisor saw her coming from a check-up and told her--no, warned her about the new alarm.  The first time she heard the alarm, she was at the state hospital in the maternity ward; an hour earlier, she watched a woman put Croatoan in the last newborn baby's eyes.
In Corpus Christi, Texas, eleven months before she came to Chitaqua, one month before the first change in her income, two months before she applied for a mortgage, and three before she was approved and renewed her lease for six months instead of a year as she had every year before, Alicia turned in an online application for Medicaid, and after a telephone interview using her Texas cell phone and verification sent by fax, she was approved.  
The code was TP-40: Medicaid for pregnant women.
Alicia's lips part, but no sound emerges.
"You still don't remember what you told me that night?" Erica asks in elaborately manufactured surprise.  "Let me refresh your memory.  You were still five weeks off, Micah was out of state for a big case, and you had a plan.  You packed your bags, cut your hair, and stopped at the store on your way out of town to grab a few things for the road trip to your new home."  Erica cocks her head.  "You ever wonder what would have happened if you hadn't stopped for snacks?  Might have made it to the next town before you went into labor."
After a long moment, Alicia shakes herself.  "Fuck you."
"You ever think of him at all?" Erica asks solicitously.  "Your dead son, I mean."
"Every day."  She wets her lips. "You done yet?"
"That night, I told you how my baby died," Erica says, now close enough to Alicia to touch.  "But you--you lied to me about yours.  You said he died of Croat at that hospital."
Alicia stiffens. "What? You told me--"
"I told you that I knew what you'd done and showed you the warrant for your arrest," Erica answers.  "I never said you were the one that told me about it."
Dean remembers: Alicia said that ten babies were born that day.  But when she broke the lock on the nursery, there were only nine.  "Christ."
"Shh," Crowley chides him, watching Erica with a pleased smile.  "It's just getting interesting."
Dean told him that nine newborn children were in that nursery, but Alicia said she killed ten.
"Shut up!" Micah shouts, starting toward Alicia, expression pleading.  "Steph, listen to me--"
Micah freezes as a throwing knife slides over Alicia's palm, tip pressed between her thumb and middle finger.  "My range with this is twenty-six feet and I don't miss."
Micah shows unexpected wisdom and stays put.  "I never would have told her, I swear, but she made me--"
"Please," Erica interrupts.  "He volunteered the information of his own free will.  Come on, Steph, why are you surprised he betrayed you in this, too?  Is there any way that he hasn't?"
"You were going to kill her!" Micah says desperately.  "Steph," he breathes, "baby, she said she'd kill you if you didn't say yes.  I was trying to protect you!"
"He told me all about coming home to an empty house, a bloody nursery, and what he found buried in the west corner of the yard," Erica continues.  "Did you see him and your parents on the news, asking for your safe return?  For you were the victim of postpartum psychosis, you were a danger to yourself and others, but you knew not what you did.  They weren't sure exactly what you did, either, or at least, what you used.  Blunt force trauma--"
"Croat was just a story," Alicia says tonelessly.  "Epidemic just a word: I didn't know shit.  What it looked like, how it was spread, that it was one hundred percent communicable, how long it took to manifest...." Her voice breaks.  "And how hard they are to kill."
Those missing hours: that's what she was doing.
"I didn't know--"  Micah breaks off, focusing on Alicia again.  "I'm sorry, I didn't--for fuck's sake, how was I supposed to know what happened?  When I saw it--"
"Him," Alicia interrupts.  "His name is--was Max."
"Max," he says eagerly, nodding.  "I didn't know, Steph, not about Croat or--or any of it.  The hospital burned down, they said--"
"You didn't know then," Erica says generously. "But when you got to Chitaqua, you did.  She told you what really happened, and remind me, what happened then?"
"I told her if anyone found out--"
"You'd make sure no one would," Erica says.  "Provided you got to keep her, of course. Sound familiar, Steph?"
"I was protecting her!" Micah exclaims.  "You think she'd be okay alone in that camp?  Who the fuck knows would have happened if I hadn't--she was naïve, I had to do something--"
"Bullshit; you didn't fuck her up enough not to know what blackmail looked like," Erica retorts, and for a moment, Castiel glimpses a very human anger.
"You--" Micah starts.
"If I'd known before the contract...." Erica says softly, eyes black.  "But I didn't, because she was protecting you.  From me.  And after, I couldn't touch him."  She looks at Alicia.  "And he sold you out.  Told me every detail so I could get your yes."
"You still used it," Alicia whispers.
"Twelve days later," Erica answers.  "When I ran out of time."
"But giving him carte blanche to beat me for almost two weeks for my yes, that was...." Erica cocks her head, looking amused, and slowly, Alicia turns to look at Micah.  "Before the contract--what does that mean, that after, you couldn't touch him?"
"I made two mistakes when I took him to the Crossroad," Erica says.  "I gave him the script before we went, and I forgot he was a lawyer."
Micah said: Erica wasn't big on chatting, and if I didn't follow the script, she'd kill me. Literally, right there, she would have shot me in the head.
Dean doesn't have Erica's excuse; he knew perfectly well he was talking to a lawyer and believed him anyway.
"What was your price?"
"She told me I had to go or she'd kill me.  I--"  He yelps at a flash of metal, stumbling backward and sprawling into a heavy drift, just missing the splintered remains of a tree.  Following his gaze, Castiel sees the thin throwing knife that landed between his feet.
"The next one goes in your left thigh, one inch above the knee," Alicia says, palming the a second knife.  "Then your right.  Then, who knows: could be anywhere.  What was your price, Micah?"
"I was trying to protect you," Micah pleads.  "From her."
"He followed the script," Erica says. "Right up until the end.  Next thing I knew, he threw in a couple more.  Once negotiations started, I couldn't do a thing until they were done.  And after that...."
"What were his terms?"
"You were right; he really was a good lawyer," Erica answers.  "Everything that didn't straight up violate free will, he got; none of us could so much as touch him.  Including me."
"She's lying!" Micah struggles in the snow for purchase before finally getting to his feet and starting toward her, but the sight of Alicia's knife stops him short. "That's not what I--Steph, I love you.  I didn't want to lose you, and she--it was the only way I could keep you from her!  She set me up!  She was going to kill you if I didn't get you to say yes!"
Erica's been waiting for this for a long time, he suspects; there's almost a rote quality, as if even before her death, she imagined this conversation, every revelation, every defense, every counter; now, she finally gets to use it.  
"I wasn't going to kill you," Erica says, and once again, that flash of someone else, Erica as she was then. If he ever doubted Dean's certainty regarding Erica's feelings for Alicia then, he wouldn't now.  "I couldn't--I wouldn't have killed you no matter how you answered.  My first mistake wasn't taking Micah to the Crossroads; it was asking you to go to the cabin in the first place.  I knew it was too soon, that you--that you weren't ready.  I regretted it from the moment I asked until the day I died, you have to believe me."
"She's a liar and would say anything to get you!" Micah snarls.  "For fuck's sake, Steph, she tried to kill you two days ago!"
Alicia doesn't look away from Erica.  "I was actually there for that," she says.  "Well?"
"I didn't expect--" She hesitates.  "Until I saw you, I didn't know that---that I...."
"What?"
"When I first saw you outside the walls, I was so angry--I didn't understand what was happening to me."  Reaching out, she cups Alicia's face.  "Now I do."
"Understand what?"
"I didn't leave everything on the rack after all," Erica says quietly.  "I kept you."
For an endless moment, there's nothing but silence.  
"I'll let them go," Erica says, nodding toward Carol, Cathy, and Kat.  "If they want to deal, they'll have to work for it, and it won't be with me or mine.  Jeremy and the girl, too: in fact, everything that happened today, I'll undo it all.  It'll be like it didn't happen."
"Like I give that much of a shit about them," she answers, but the flicker of her gaze over them gives lie the words.  "What else do you have?"
"Andrea."
Alicia stiffens.  "What?"
"Before you passed out from whiskey overkill, you gave me a name: Andrea," Erica answers.  "I told you I'd find her.  I know where she is."
Everyone has a price.
Dean hits the ground so hard he bites his tongue, blinking vaguely at the empty air.  "What--"
"Hush," Crowley says with a glittering smile, eyes on Erica as a raised hand locks Dean against the ground.  "I want to see if she can do it."
Alicia meets Erica's eyes. "Where?"
"She's safe and sound in a Luciferite compound, destroying the world one Croat infection at a time.  And I know something else: five months ago, she had a baby.  For Lucifer's greater glory, you believe that bullshit?"
Alicia sucks in a breath.
"I know the entire compound to the last sub-basement, the passcodes, but what I can't do is pass the salt lines or the warding; only a human can do that and I can teach you how to break them.  We'll take them all out, every fucking one of them. She'll be last, though; she's yours.  You want her dead," Erica adds.  "But not as much as you want her to hurt, right?  We can do that; I can teach you--Steph, I can teach you so much, you have no idea, and that's just on earth.  Once she's dead...."  Erica grins.  "You can have her kid."
Alicia flinches, and Erica shakes her head.  "I don't mean kill him.  What kind of life would he have with a mother like that?  She took yours, so it's only fair you have hers."
"And abandon him in ten years when I go to Hell?"
"Of course not," Erica breathes.  "Once you're mine, I can wait.  The length of your natural life, that's nothing, not if I have you for all of it and forever after. I'll keep you both safe, Alicia; you'll never want for a single thing, and I can be anything you want."  Her voice softens.  "Or anyone. Don't like this meatsuit?  You can pick the next one."
"No!" Micah shouts. 
Erica gestures, and Micah's slammed back into the ground.  "When everyone finds out you were at the cabin--and we both know that's one secret Dean isn't going to keep any longer than he has to--they'll all know who you really are.  You know who you are, Steph--and so do I."
"You're mine," Micah says unexpectedly, sitting up, and Alicia turns around just as the safety clicks off his gun, snow still clinging to the barrel.  "She can't have you."
The sound of a gunshot echoes through the clearing, and Alicia stumbles backward into Erica's arms, and Castiel catches a glint of metal just as Micah collapses back onto the ground with a grunt.  Much like outside Ichabod's walls, with the break in Erica's concentration, so does her control: everyone drops to the snow
Including Castiel: he catches himself on one hand, shattering relief washing through him even as vertigo sets the world in a violently nauseating spin.  Reaching back, he pauses to orient himself before closing his hand on the butt of his other gun.
"No," he hears Erica saying, and blinking, the clearing comes into something like focus as Erica lowers Alicia to the road.  "No, not like this.  Not like this, Steph."  Blinking again, he just glimpses the dark stain spreading across Alicia's shirt under Erica's hand.  "You can't do this, not yet."
Alicia's fingers dig into the snow helplessly.  "Can't do--much--about bullets."
"I can."  Black film spills across her eyes. "I can fix this; same terms and your life, here and now.  Say yes."
Raising her hand, Alicia feels over her chest, expression more bewildered than anything.  "It.  It should.  Hurt more." Castiel can see blood on her lips.  "Weird."
"Steph," Erica says urgently.  "Say yes."
Grimacing, she licks her lips, leaving traces of blood as she looks up at Erica.  "Alicia."
"What?"
"It's Alicia.  And the answer.  Is." The blue eyes open, and her left hand comes up, thin blade slicing across Erica's face. With a shout, she jerks back, and Alicia draws up her legs for a two footed kick that sends Erica sprawling feet away with the sound of shattered ribs.  "No."
Sudden movement from the other side of the field catches his attention; forcing himself to focus, he sees that Erica's compatriots have fully emerged from the brush and far, far too close to Jeremy and Joelle.  Swallowing, Castiel tightens his hold on his gun; he can't stand, but he's fairly certain he can still shoot.
Looking dazed, Jeremy pushes himself up, and Castiel sees him exchange a look with Joelle; as he assists her to her knees, she reaches up as if to check her scarf, smoothing it back behind her ear.  All at once, she jerks something free that gleams dully, and as the closest demon turns at the motion, she lunges forward, burying it in the groin of the demon and slashes down savagely.
The high, horrified scream echoes through the clearing as he pitches forward, and Joelle drops flat for Jeremy to swivel around for a hard kick to the head that sends the demon sprawling into its nearest companion with what is most likely a cracked skull.  Which doubtless he hasn't noticed yet or will for some time; demons in male bodies still react like any being in a male body when effectively castrated.  
Leaping to their feet, they run for the jeep, and with the attention of four demons on them both, Castiel stops caring about vertigo.
Bracing a hand against the ground, he narrows his focus and four precise shots send them to the ground, screaming; the sciatic nerve is preferable, of course, but from the sound of their screams, any nerve center will do quite well.  
"Thank you," he says softly, shaking off the remaining dizziness as he climbs to his feet; the others immediately freeze in place. "I've waited two and a half years for that."
Checking to assure Jeremy and Joelle are clear, he focuses on Erica and takes aim; he loaded this gun just for her.  "You heard her answer," he says. "Now, as is traditional, get you gone.  Before I rip out your throat."
Frozen, Erica doesn't respond at first, but as Castiel advances, she scrambles to her feet, absently wiping the blood from her face as she backs away, eyes searching the clearing blindly.  Ignoring her, he kneels by Alicia, and she tries to smile, then turns her head, spitting out a mouthful of blood.  "So--Cas, look.  I--"
"Conserve your strength," he whispers, trying to breathe through the tightness in his chest.  "It might not be as bad as it seems."  It's as bad, he knows on a single glance. From the corner of his eye, he detects motion, and sees Carol jogging awkwardly on two working legs, but her goal is clear when she stumbles to her knees by Micah, and he dismisses her for the moment. 
"Shut.  Up." She grimaces again. "I tried to survive. Promise.  Just.  Not like that."
Abruptly, Joelle drops on Alicia's other side, reaching for the end of her scarf.  Before he can react, it neatly unravels with a single pull, a second stiletto falling into her waiting hand from among the tightly wound braids.
"Hold still," she commands with exactly Dolores' inflection of medical supremacy, and Alicia responds unthinkingly.  Reaching for Alicia's shirt, she bites her lip, confirming everything he already knew.  "Give me a minute," she whispers, cutting the scarf in half and making a pad of one part before pressing it on the welling blood.  "Just breathe, slow, while I check you out.  Dolores taught me how to do a field assessment, so don't forget to tell her I was amazing, okay?"
Alicia smiles faintly and nods. "Prodigy."
Jeremy crouches beside him, a gun from the jeep in one hand, dirty face nearly grey with fear and fatigue, the dried tracks of tears leaving pale lines in the dirt.  "I should have been ready," he says hoarsely.  "I'm sorry--"
"You were perfect," he says roughly, unable to stop himself from half turning and pulling Jeremy into his arms.  Tightening his hold, he's not sure which of them is shaking harder.  "You remained calm, you did what was required without taking foolish risks, and most importantly, you survived, and your partner survived as well; that was exactly what you were supposed to do." When Jeremy looks at him uncertainly, he cups his face firmly, feeling the first faint growth of adolescent stubble.  "I'm so proud of you."
Jeremy smiles weakly, wiping his eyes, and Castiel glimpses an edge of darkening plum on his forehead and a greater darkness on his left cheekbone reminiscent of the barrel of a gun. Ghosting a finger just over it, he takes a very careful breath.  
"Who did this?" Jeremy licks his lips, and the memory of shock and betrayal on his face narrows it down considerably.  "Kat or Kyle?"
"Kat," he whispers.  "I--I wasn't moving fast enough.  Joelle tried to get between us," he adds, voice strengthening, and Castiel studies Joelle as she works, marking the greater fullness of her left cheek--a backhand, if he's not mistaken--and a suspicious puffiness on the left side of her lower lip.
"Do either of you have any other injuries?" he asks; they seemed to have no trouble running, but a hunter runs until they're deprived of legs (and sometimes even then), so that means nothing.
"We're fine," Jeremy assures him, eyes flickering over the too-quiet glade, broken only by Carol's stifled sobbing over Micah's immobile form.  Castiel focuses on her for a long, thoughtful moment, her fragile throat, her temple, her chest, her belly: his left hand--stained with Alicia's blood--tightens around his gun, thumb pressed against the safety.
"Cas?  You okay?"
Tearing his gaze away, he looks at the young, worried face, and deliberately removes his thumb from the safety.  "Just distracted for a moment," he says reassuringly, and Jeremy nods, relaxing. "Joelle, are you finished?"
She looks up as she presses the second pad of her scarf and nods in resignation.  "Just about."  Despite everything--despite seeing the wound--he somehow still hoped, and losing that is like someone ripped off a limb.
It's an effort to let Jeremy go, but needs must.  "Both of you, go to our jeep and lock yourself inside--" 
"No," Jeremy says flatly, wiping his eyes as Joelle places the second pad, the first already soaked through.  "Someone's gotta watch your back, and that's us."
"That is exactly what I need you to do," he answers.  "Secure the jeep and keep watch for me.  Alicia and I are well within your range." He holds Jeremy's eyes, understanding far better why Dean wished him to remain at Headquarters; it's not rational, no, there's nothing here that can threaten them now before he can kill it, but after the last few hours, any risk is too much to bear.  He'd do anything to have them both safe in Headquarters under Kamal's eye. In a well-fortified room with all the weapons available and perhaps a very large, very hungry dragon guarding the door; the Appalachians or Rockies should have at least one colony established by now and probably two.  
"Watch the road from Ichabod as well," he adds in a moment of inspiration.  "And inform me if anyone else arrives."
Joelle opens her mouth to argue.  "That is an order," he tells her, not at all surprised; no hunter is happy when forced to leave combat before all the enemy are dead.  "I need someone I trust to watch my back, and you are the only ones I can trust to do so.  Go."  Then, belatedly, "Very well done with the demon.  Your mother will be very pleased."
Her mouth quirks in suppressed pleasure in a job well done.  "Thanks." She waits for him to replace her hand on the makeshift bandage with his own, then gets up, and Jeremy automatically moves to cover her retreat.  When they're safely locked inside the jeep, he turns his full attention to Alicia.  Joelle's efforts slowed the bleeding considerably, but only that.
"Conserve your strength," he says again when Alicia's lips part.  Even if she could survive long enough to get back to Ichabod and the infirmary--and that's doubtful--there's nothing they can do for her. He doubts a fully staffed operating room with several experienced surgeons appearing around them could do much more.
"It wasn't. Deathbed," she whispers, blood bubbling up between her lips.  "Thought about it.  On the way here.  I was going to survive.  And prove it.  That I was sorry."
"You didn't need to prove it!" Taking the frighteningly cold hand in his own, he laces their fingers together.  "You didn't need to do anything but be yourself.  Did you think I wouldn't forgive you?  How could you be so stupid?  It would have just been a matter of time; I was halfway there already."
She laughs, a mistake; he turns her head so she can spit out more blood, but that much exertion has stolen more of her time. "Liar," she whispers, barely more than a movement of her lips.  "But thanks."  She pauses for a horrible, wet sound as she tries to breathe.  "Just--don't hate me forever, okay?"
Blinking back the blurring of his eyes, he shakes his head. "I could never hate you."
She grimaces, fingers curling around his trustingly.  "Maximus. My son." She stops for a shallow breath.  "I don't regret him.  Those hours.  With him.  Best of my whole life.  He was worth it."
"Maximus," he says softly, and she tries to smile.  "Best and Greatest.  If you're any indication, he must have been an exceedingly attractive child."
"Winston Churchill," she whispers, love rippling through her voice. "He was perfect."
"Alicia?"  She tries to smile, but the blue eyes are glazing, lids heavy, and all at once, a strange quiet descends, a soft, warm breeze sliding over his skin, chasing away the freezing cold.  Even Alicia seems to feel it, tight mouth softening, relaxing as it eases between her and her pain.  "Not yet," he says, fighting the urge to shake her.  "I never taught you to use a sword, and I should have.  I--I couldn’t bear to touch one, but that's not an excuse.  I could do it now--I will--but not...not if you aren't here."
He wants to clutch her closer, as if by sheer will he can hold off the inevitable; this is the fate of all those born mortal, and he doesn't care.  Stroking her hair back with a shaking hand, he scrubs a hand across his face and calms himself, for her sake if not his own.  
"Alicia," he whispers, stroking her cheek and waiting for her to look at him.  "Listen to me.  Be not afraid, for my Father's fields are vast, and a place has been prepared for you since the moment of your birth." His voice cracks on the last word, eyes blurring again, and he wipes them angrily.  "You don't remember now, you can't, but you will. Your work here is done; go there so you can rest.  The Host lays claim to every soul on earth without exception, and we will not be denied our right to even one. Your soul is safe, I promise you."
Weakly, her fingers brush his. "Cas, it's okay.  I know.  Where I'm going."
"You know nothing," he says fiercely.  "We are the last of the Host on all Creation and this is our will.  The path is long and not well-lit, but you will follow it because we order it; you will walk it to the end.  Don't be afraid, for it will lead you home."
The air smells of fresh, clean earth and spring, fields newly sown, dew-heavy under the warm sun.  "Or perhaps you will have guidance after all." 
Her expression changes, eyes widening as they fix on something beyond him.  "What," she whispers, fingers squeezing his with unexpected strength.  "Cas.  The girl...."
"With her sheep."  Alicia nods incredulously.  He wonders if he's imagining the brush of wool against his back as Alicia's fading gaze, fixed above his shoulder, travels to rest on the empty air beside her.  "Her name is Amieyl.  My first student, as it were."
Alicia's lips part in a faint smile.  "Not.  Just.  A story."
"She was a shepherdess," he whispers, barely able to see through the tears.  "Then she became a hunter, like you.  She's here to take you--to count sheep, which makes sense, now that I think about it."
Alicia's eyes fall closed; her next words are barely a breath.  "They aren't sheep."
"No, they aren't," he agrees, lowering his forehead to hers and closing his eyes; the next words squeeze themselves out from a throat closed over.  He squeezes her hand one last time: it's the fate of all those born mortal to let go as well.  What he hasn't learned yet is how to bear it.  "Stand up and go with Amieyl now," he whispers brokenly.  "And be at peace."
Faintly, he feels the squeeze of her fingers, or perhaps he imagined it; it goes limp and the last, shuddering breath isn't followed by another. 
"Take care of her," he whispers into the fading warmth.  "And give her peace."
A touch that feels like fingers brushes against his neck as he begins to cry.
There's a sense of growing inevitability, like something written long ago, that was, is, and will always be.
Dean watches as Carol turns to look at Erica.  "Bring him back," she begs.  "I'll do anything else you want, just--"
"You have nothing else I want," Erica interrupts, her gaze landing on Micah's body, and Dean shivers at the glimpse of something so far beyond hatred he's not sure what to call it.  "Would you like me to give him your regards?"
"What?" Carol struggles up on her feet.  "I fulfilled the deal!  Thirty souls or Alicia--!"
"Alicia is dead, and Cathy's still uncontracted," Erica says indifferently.  "At Micah death, the contract was incomplete at twenty-nine; I dissolve it without prejudice.  All the individual contracts stand." 
"Well done," Crowley says softly, satisfaction rippling through his voice. "You must admit, Dean, she does get the job done."
You send Erica when you want to win and you don't care how.  "Yeah," he agrees.  "She does."
Understanding belatedly dawns across Carol's face.  "You set me up!"
The gleaming black eyes rest on Carol in outright malice.  "Of course I did," she answers.  "Did you think I was here to help?"  Turning away, she adds, "I'll see you soon."
"You can't--" Carol starts angrily, and Erica gestures carelessly, throwing her into Micah's body.  Then her step slows, and following her gaze, Dean sees Kyle, crying helplessly a few feet away.
"You can, actually, stop this now," Crowley says, giving him a curious look, like maybe Dean didn't notice he wasn't restrained anymore.  "Just walk out, bring them to heel with the wonder of being Dean Winchester.  Your predecessor got them to sell their souls for him and didn't even have to try.  Surely you can--"  He pauses for a pregnant moment.  "You don't want to."
Cas hasn't moved, still bent over Alicia's body, but Dean can feel his shoulders shaking, the tearing pain in his chest from every sobbing breath like it's happening to him.  Twenty feet away, Kyle wipes his eyes and looks up, and there's an almost audible click when he meets Erica's gaze that seems to ripple through the clearing.
"I see what you mean," Crowley remarks as Kyle starts toward her.  "Humans really will do anything for love."
Dean thinks of Andy and Gary, of Mark and Phil and Drew, Haruhi and Rosario; of whoever died at the North Gate and whoever's in the infirmary now.  "That's not love."
"I almost want to keep her, just to see what she's capable of in a century or two."  Dean almost laughs at the sincerity in Crowley's voice.  "Everyone has a price, Dean; you can't judge them for what you did yourself once upon a time."
"I can judge them for anything I want."  Erica tips her head back triumphantly, and Kyle squeezes his eyes shut and nods blindly; that would be it, then.
He can feel Crowley looking at him.  "You realize what they've bought--"
"I know exactly what they bought," he interrupts.  "They should get what they paid for."
Crowley smiles, watching Kyle step forward for a luxuriant kiss that makes him shudder.  "The best part of any contract," he adds softly as Cathy approaches Erica, "is when they realize it really was exactly what they asked for. I do so enjoy that." He gives Dean a sideways glance and smiles.  "And so do you."
Crowley cocks his head as if he's listening for something, and as Cathy steps back, hand reaching for her mouth, he nods in satisfaction.  "She's done. Go gather up them up now.  This has been a very long day for all of them." His gaze rests on Erica and her buddies in anticipation. "Their day, however, isn't quite over, I think."
Cas straightens, shoulders slumped despairingly; it hurts just to look at him.  Starts with birth, ends with death: a lifetime lived between, and the memory you leave behind.  Starting toward them, he adds, "They think you're weak.  So does their master."
"I do realize that," Crowley tells him.  "I plan to enjoy correcting that very much."
And that reminds him.  "You got a traitor."
He gets ten feet when Crowley says, in a pretty impressive attempt at boredom.  "Who?"
"Jeffrey's got a new master.  Take care of it.  And Crowley?"  He waits for Crowley to look at him, bored.  "Touch Cas again, you'll find out exactly what can be done on earth as it is in the Pit." He holds Crowley's eyes.  "I invented all of it."
The flicker of raw fear's almost enough for a down payment; he's got time to collect the rest. Turning, he starts toward Cas.
Castiel is unpleasantly startled by the appearance of Kyle, who drops down on the other side of Alicia's body.  "Why isn't she... Alicia, wake up!"
Wiping his eyes, he looks from Kyle to Erica, watching from only a few feet away.  "You didn't…."
Alicia's body convulses, arching from the ground with a gasp, eyes opening wide and staring up at the sky.  Kyle's frantic expression melts into incredulous joy, but before his grasping hands reach her, Castiel sends him sprawling on the asphalt.
"What the hell--"
"Shut up."  The second convulsion is more violent, and dragging off his coat, he folds it quickly and shoves it beneath her head to give it some protection from the road, then concentrates and feels something fall into place.  His vision doubles; with every convulsion, the temporal history of Alicia's body reverses itself second by second, not healing but undoing: lungs and heart undamaged, bones unbroken, chest unbreached, while Alicia relives her own moment of death and every second of dying until the moment of impact.  As she comes to a shuddering rest, the intact bullet falls into the snow, unmarked, as if it had never been shot.  The tear in her shirt remains, blood still caking the fabric as well as her unmarked skin, and the pallor of blood loss is unchanged, but for all intents and purposes, it's as if it never happened.
Belatedly, Castiel suppresses the sense of time displacement again, but he can already feel the beginnings of what will be a truly annoying headache very soon.  As she starts to stir, he checks her pulse as her chest rises and falls frantically, drawing in great gulps of air as if she's forgotten how to breathe and is only just now remembering how. 
Bewildered, she scrabbles at the linen padding and clumsily knocking it aside.  "What--"
"Breathe," he tells he firmly, easing her away from Kyle's belated reach and helping her sit up, bracing her against his chest when she begins to sag and checking the back of her head for any injury from the road.  He wants to pick her up, carry her to the jeep, and drive back to Ichabod.  There, he can take her to Headquarters, place her in a defensible room with Jeremy and Joelle (he'll ask Dean how to fortify it), and watch her breathe until he believes she won't stop again.  However, the undeniable fact that his legs won't hold him at this moment is an inhibiting factor. "Just remain calm."
Looking over her head, he sees Erica raise a hand, stopping her other followers in their less than stealthy advance.  The black-slick eyes shift from Alicia to him, and he just catches a glimpse of overwhelming relief before she looks away.
"I don't…" He turns his attention back to Alicia as she pats weakly at the tear in her shirt, looking down as she feels around the bloody edges, fingers sliding incredulously over the whole skin in dawning horror.  "I said no, Cas. I said--"
"You did," he whispers against her hair.  "I knew you would."
"Hey." 
Startled, Castiel turns to see Dean jogging toward them and feels a burst of relief so sharp it's painful. "Dean."  
Crouching beside him, Dean's hand comes to rest on his shoulder, squeezing.  "Won't be long now," he says enigmatically, then reaches for Alicia's chin with his other hand.  "You okay?  Name, location, and last answer I'll tell you; end of the world. Cas won't ask, but it makes him feel better if you say it all, no idea why."
"Yeah, I…." She takes a deep breath, hand trembling against her chest, pulling back her fingers to stare at the blood before realizing that Dean's waiting.  "Alicia, Ichabod, end of the world."
"That's who you are," he tells her, catching her bloody hand and squeezing it.  "Nothing's changed.  You understand me?"
"No.  What…." She looks at their hands for a long moment, then turns her head to look at Kyle, and he can see the moment she understands, a new wave of horror washing over her.  "Oh God."
"Alicia,"  he breathes like a prayer, smiling at her as he wipes his eyes.  "Hey, baby, how you feeling?"
Castiel feels her begin to shake.  "What did you do?"
"It's okay," Kyle tells her eagerly, reaching for her free hand and somehow missing her flinch.  "It was worth it, I promise.  I’m sorry about--I'm nothing like him, Alicia, I'd never hurt you.  I tried to protect you, but--"
"Stop it."  Alicia's lips move soundlessly, shrinking more with every word, like each one is leaving a bruise that won't ever heal.  "Stop talking--"
"I love you," Kyle says urgently, the hectic smile beginning to fade and uncertainty taking its place, the beginnings of bewilderment.  "I'd do anything for you."
Alicia stares at him before her eyes travel over the road, passing over Carol by Micah's body, to Kat and Cathy, and finally to Erica.
"You know what they say," Erica says.  "If at first you don’t succeed, try, try aga--"
Alicia jerks her hand free of Kyle's, a knife appearing between her fingers for a blurred second before it slashes the air and lodges in Erica's chest, knocking her a few stumbling steps.  Before Castiel realizes what she means to do, her hand snaps to his hip, jerking Ruby's knife free, and lunging with a burst of energy, she tackles Erica to the ground, knife pressed to her throat.
Erica gasps but doesn't move.
"Take it back!" Alicia snarls.
"No."  She laughs outright, and Castiel wonders if he's the only one that hears the relief in it.  "You think there's anything I wouldn't do for you?  Kill me; I'll let you, if that's what it takes to prove it."
"You had me pushed me down that hill; you ordered Darryl to lie; don't tell me it was Micah that trapped me in that cabin, that was you, too!" Alicia says savagely.  "You think it didn't count because you didn't do it yourself?  Do I look that stupid?"
"Do I look stupid enough to lie to you when I'm trying to make contract?" Erica retorts.  "Especially with an angel around?  Come on, baby--"
"Don’t call me that," Alicia breathes, and Castiel sees the tears in her eyes.  "Don't pretend you ever gave a shit--"
"I wasn't pretending then, and I'm not now," Erica answers.  "You think I went through this much trouble for him?  All I had to do was wait until Dean threw him across the Kansas border, and ten minutes later, he'd be hound shit.  His soul, I'd give it back as filthy as he gave it up, but I'd do it; all of it, everything, was for you."
The blade against Erica's throat begins to tremble.  
"I never betrayed you," Erica says, holding Alicia's eyes as she eases upright, Alicia's knife in measured retreat. "Which is more than you can say for your friends, Alicia; Kat sold you out, Dean sent you here himself, and Cas drove you right into my arms; baby, it's not like they didn't know what was going to happen.  Nice solution to getting rid of you and keeping their hands clean, don't you think?  And Kyle...." She shrugs, wrapping a gentle hand around Alicia's wrist.  "Not too bad for a date rapist and stalker if you're into Micah Mark II, I guess.  Trust me, he'll fit in just fine where I'll be seeing him."
Alicia doesn't answer even as Erica eases her hand down to her lap.
"There we go," Erica whispers.  "Now, I have things to do, so...." There's a faint blur, and then Erica's standing by Alicia's kneeling figure.  "Don't worry about Micah," she says to Alicia's bent head, pulling the throwing knife free of her chest and dropping it into the snow.  "I'm going to invent new ways for him to pay for what he did to you.  Later."  Turning with a flicker of red, she vanishes into the brush.
"Alicia," Dean starts, but Castiel stops him with a hand on his arm as Alicia gets unsteadily to her feet, hooking Ruby's knife in her belt, and rises as well, slowly pacing her to Micah's body.
Carol glares at her from red-rimmed eyes.  "You--" And stops at whatever she sees on Alicia's face.
Stepping past her, Alicia looks down at Micah's body, and following her gaze, Castiel remembers that blur after Alicia was shot.  One of her throwing knives is buried in his throat to the hilt, breaching the trachea and embedding itself in the spine; slowly, alone and unnoticed, he choked to death on his own blood.
Crouching, she jerks her knife free, checking it carefully for damage.  Her strict training holds true even now; in lieu of her cleaning supplies, she wipes the blade fastidiously clean on the edge of her shirt, then shoves up her sleeve and slides it into place with the others against her inner arm.  For a moment longer, she looks down at him, expressionless, and then her lips curve; as she looked at the monster that tried to kill her that long ago day, she gazes on one that chased her for so long and now never will again: I win. 
Pushing herself up, she steps over Micah's body with the same interest she'd step over a rock in her path and takes three more steps before she pauses, looking startled, and Castiel moves, catching her before she hits the ground.
Dean's beside him in an instant, gun raised.  He feels the others watching him hungrily, impotent hatred and rage written into every line of their bodies.  The agony of the rack stripped them of their humanity, not their memories; when they rose, they kept their fear of him in full measure.  Even if they'd forgotten, however, Dean will kill them if they so much as move, so he's comfortable ignoring them.
"Alicia?" Castiel asks, and she frowns at him in confusion.  "You...stumbled."
"Yeah," she agrees threadily, trying to sit up and sinking back down immediately.  "Death.  Really takes it out of you."
"How are you feeling?"
"Alive," she says flatly, and he helps her upright, bending to protect her from the eyes that watch them. Head falling onto his shoulder, she sucks in a breath, and he feels the uneven rhythm of her breathing against his neck, the fast beat of her heart, the faint tremor of her body, and tightens his arms in reassurance.  Stroking her loosened hair forward to give her better protection, he follows Dean's gaze to see something not-quite fog drifting across the road and through the brush.  Thickening, it spins into narrow ribbons, circling through the clearing and winding around the demons still present in sickly tentacles that tighten more at each revolution.  "Dean?"
"Just a minute." He focuses on the closest of the visible demons, whose growing fear as the ribbons draw closer melts into something else when he sees Dean watching him.  "Luke, right?"
Luke bares his teeth in a soundless snarl that changes into shock when he realizes he can't make a sound.
"Just wanted to be sure," Dean tells him. "Remember the rack?"
Luke licks his lips, mouth opening and closing uselessly.
"Next time I see you," he continues softly, right hand clenching around something Castiel can't quite see, "you're going to wish you were still on it."
Castiel tries to speak, but the words die on his lips; reaching out, he rests a hand against Dean's thigh.
"But what's coming up now--not a bad second choice," he adds with a slow smile. "Give Crowley my regards, right about--"
Abruptly, grey smoke pours out from a dozen locations in the quiet woods, forming a thick, greasy cloud, and the ribbons hungrily curl through them, twining against each other and through it with lazy pleasure, widening by degrees, before they begin to fold the cloud into themselves like paper origami, razor angles and agonized screaming tucked into each progressively smaller fold until it vanishes from sight.
"--now."  Dean holsters his gun and when he looks down, Castiel sees only tired green eyes and a relieved smile.  Crouching, he catches Castiel's hand before he can withdraw it, brushing an absent kiss against the dirty knuckles.  "Good job, and next time, I'm locking you in our room, free will is bullshit."
Castiel is surprised into a laugh.  "However will you keep me there with nothing but a lock?"
"I have a few ideas," he says softly, and Castiel tips his head back at the brush of knuckles against his cheek. "So--"
"Really?" Alicia whispers.  "I'm right here.  Literally between you." Her expression turns to horror.  "It's not even kinky, just...uncomfortable and weird." 
Dean looks from her to Micah, cocking his head in a fast, professional assessment, approving, before telling her, "Nice distraction."
"Thanks," she says faintly.  "I had a plan."
"Good to know.  Next time, how about using it?" Dean asks.  "We're gonna talk about stabbing the asshole before getting shot, how does that sound? Less stressful, no one dies." 
"Oh." She nods at him blearily.  "He kept--getting out of range."
"Next time, don't tell him your goddamn range, then."  Dropping a hand to her shoulder, he squeezes gently.  "Who are you?"
She swallows.  "Alicia of Chitaqua.  Who survived after all."
"We'll work on meaning it," Dean says, squeezing her shoulder again before letting go and jerking his head toward their jeep. "You ready to get out of here?"
As Castiel nods--yes, please--something occurs to him.  "Where are Amanda and Joseph?"  A quick survey shows no sign of an additional jeep, which leads to wondering how Dean arrived here.
"By now, probably walking back from the other gate and pissed as hell," he answers. "Long story, tell you all about it when we get back.  Now, can we go?"
Alicia nods before she makes a tremendous effort and starts to move.  "Sounds good.  Just need to get up." Then, in blatant denial of reality when her head drops back on his shoulder after getting an entire two inches,  "Just.  Give me a minute."
"As long as you need," Dean assures her.  "But--don't tell anyone--Chuck has pictures of Cas carrying me because they're both dicks."
She stills; when he glances down, she's looking at Dean in bafflement laced with what is definitely the beginnings of a plan to get those pictures as soon as possible.
"I tried to make Chitaqua's entire perimeter in one go a couple of months ago," he explains.  "I was fine, but Chuck panicked, and Cas was almost crying when he got there--"
"I was not crying."
"--so I figured he'd feel better if I let him take me back," Dean finishes smugly.  
"You fainted," Castiel says flatly.  "You stayed unconscious through Chuck's horrified screams for help and entreaties I not kill him when I got there--"
"Wait, I remember that," Alicia interrupts, making a faint movement like she wants to straighten.  "Thought Chuck was being eaten by a were-bear or something but later saw him whole and alive, so there goes a couple of hours I'll never get back assembling a were-bear trap and avenging his death with were-bear-murder, stew, and moisturizer."
Dean stares at her, mouth half-open as if undecided on which part of that to address first or even wants to.
"We were running super-low on meat then, and bear fat is excellent for moisturizer as well as chilblains," she explains. "And lube, for future reference. I had several volunteers lined up to try it out.  There was a sign-up sheet."
"Christ," Dean breathes, covering his face, and Castiel watches him silently decide on a course of pretending this conversation didn't happen.  Far better than the alternative, such as the moment you realize you're not sure if a were-bear counts as human (cannibalism) and also, you're actually asking yourself that very question, and far worse, want an answer.  Mortality contains many of those moments, he reflects; he's still trying to decide how often a sheepapus goes into heat (sex is so enjoyable, only once a year seems cruel).
"I didn't faint," Dean says firmly, glaring at Castiel as if he was the one who brought up were-bear stew and were-bear-fat lubrication.  "Mostly.  Anyway, sometimes--when you're mostly conscious and your boyfriend is sobbing--shut up, Cas--and your legs won't move anymore--it's okay to, you know…." Dean trails off, looking pained. "You know?"
"Let other people help you?" Alicia says faintly and seeing his enthusiastic nod, looks at Castiel incredulously.  "So this is what a life lesson from Dean Winchester feels like."
"What does it feel like?" he asks curiously.
"Weird," she says, starting to laugh but it almost immediately changes to a sob before she stops it against his shoulder.  "Okay, onward and--and upward maybe?"
"You got it," Dean tells her before saying, in a very different voice, "Everyone who wants inside the gate better be there before I am."
Kyle is still kneeling where they left him, looking bewildered, but as if waiting for Dean's order, Kat and Cathy obediently start toward the other jeep.  Carol, red-eyed and shaken, gives Micah one last glance before getting to her feet and following more slowly. 
"Kyle," Dean says quietly, but it gets Kyle's attention.  "Get up and get in the jeep with them or you're staying here."
Clumsily finding his feet, his eyes focus on Alicia.  "Alicia," he says, starting toward them before stopping short when he realizes Dean's in his way and there's a gun pointed at his head.  "What--"
"Go," Dean says calmly followed by the unmistakable click of the safety.  "Now."
Kyle's mouth works soundlessly, staring down the barrel of Dean's gun but even that's not enough to keep him from focusing on Alicia in betrayal and growing anger.  Castiel tightens his arms as Alicia starts to shake again, trying to offer reassurance she can feel and would be able to trust instead of the words that right now, she wouldn't be able to hear, much less understand.  "I saved your life!"
"Or I shoot you," Dean adds without changing expression, but Castiel can sense a dangerous stillness beneath his calm, watchful and waiting for nothing more than a single misstep.  "Ten years or now: this story ends the same either way, and you're the only one who cares how long it takes to get there."  
Kyle isn't completely stupid; staring at Dean fixedly, he starts to tremble, bewilderment and terror fighting for supremacy before human instinct takes the decision from his hands.  He starts to back away, turning toward the jeep but is unable to stop himself from glancing back and trips over Micah's body.  Landing in a messy sprawl, he sits up and stares at the ruins of Micah's throat before scrabbling desperately backward and finding his feet, makes for the other jeep at something just short of a run.
Dean watches him expressionlessly, fingers flexing on the hilt of his gun until he holsters it when Kyle's inside. Resting a hand on Castiel's back, he urges them into a slow walk.  "Jeremy, start it up," he yells.
"Can I drive?" Jeremy calls back, and while still pale, he seems well; Castiel makes a note to speak to him later, perhaps over a meal.  That works very well with Dean, he's discovered, and it would also assure Jeremy remains in his line of sight for the foreseeable future.
Dean looks at Castiel suspiciously.  "Who taught him to drive?"
"I did."  For some reason, Dean looks alarmed.  "He's very good."
"I'm driving," Dean decides, eyes going to Alicia, frightening still in his arms.  "It'll be okay, promise."
Alicia's fingers tighten on Castiel's shoulder. "How would you know," is muffled but audible against his coat. 
"Sam told me."  He nods to Joelle as she opens the back door and Castiel eases inside with Alicia in his arms, and she gets in behind them, shutting the door.  "You got shotgun," he tells Jeremy, who sighs and moves to the passenger side as Dean climbs in.  Getting out the hand unit, he slides the earpiece into place.  "This is Dean of Chitaqua; who is this?" He pauses, mouth tightening.  "Got it.  Meet us at the West Gate; any of them try to run, shoot 'em.  And get me Manuel."  Looking at Alicia in the rearview mirror, he says, "We'll drop you off at Headquarters with--"
"I'm okay," she says tiredly, lifting her head.  "Mortuary, right?"
At the buzz from the hand unit, he starts to answer, then hesitates.  "You don't have to--"
"I do," she says.  "For Andy."  Then, with a catch in her voice, "And for Cathy."
Dean isn't surprised that after a murmured word to Alicia, Cas is the first out of the jeep, nearly vibrating with restrained paranoia as he escorts Jeremy and Joelle into Headquarters and (on a guess) directly into Kamal's startled custody with what is probably a honest to God frightening order to not let them out of his sight.
When he returns, Dean checks his expression in the rearview mirror and can't stop himself from asking, "So what did Kamal say?"
"He'll throw himself physically upon them if they should try to move more than three feet away from him," Cas says absently.  "Kara is seeing to their injuries and will send to the infirmary if further medical attention is needed."
Assuming anyone's available, that is.
When they reach the mortuary, Joe and Manuel are waiting outside, Joe adding an accusing glare Dean can feel as he parks on the opposite side of the street and gets out.  Opening the back door, he hesitates.  "Alicia...." He's not sure what to add after that. "Stay behind Cas, okay?"
She nods, and if she's not entirely steady on her feet, she's walking at least.  It feels like miles to cross the street, going between the two parked jeeps, each with two members of the Souls For Sale club bent over the hood, disarmed and surrounded by grim teams who didn't bother pretending to play nice: Lee's got Kat and Cathy, while Anyi's keeps close watch on Carol and Kyle.  Cathy's crying, while Carol and Kyle have the good sense to keep their mouths shut (though Kyle's expression says he's starting to work out how much he's fucked up), but Kat makes up for it, alternating between demands and pleading, and the fact Jane's hovering right behind her tells him Kat's not being gracious here.
Manuel extends a hand and pulling him into a surprising hug. "I heard about Gary," he says quietly.  "After this morning, we should have put a watch on Cathy--"
"Dude, plenty to go around," Dean says hoarsely, stepping back. "More ours than yours.  North Gate?"
"Volunteers from six towns, no Alliance members," Manuel answers.  "Their families--and a couple of the mayors--are at the infirmary with Alison.  If it helps, we're all in this together, literally; the Alliance is being informed now."
"Anyone from Carol's town?" Manuel shrugs; yeah, he wouldn't want to claim her either.  Glancing at the closed mortuary doors, currently guarded by two of Ichabod's patrol, he asks,  "How long?"
"Callisto sent word about forty-five minutes ago," he says.  "Amanda, Sarah, and Mel's team arrived just after I did.  We're running short, so Kamal sent Ana's team to help; I sent them to secure the room and keep the staff calm while we checked the building.  Callisto was the only one in the room when--" He stumbles over the lack of word for it.  "When it happened.  She left, locked the door, and ordered the staff upstairs before she called us.  She's still down there," he adds.  "She won't leave until she's sure."
"Any word from the infirmary?" Dean asks Joe, eyes flickering to the mortuary doors and back to Jane shoving Kat flat on the jeep, leaning down to say something that makes her go still.
"Just came back," Joe answers soberly.  "Phil's still out, but Dolores said his vitals are good, and Valli's hopeful; she's on observation.  Drew's leg should be okay, needed blood and will definitely need some rehab, but he's stoned as fuck right now and gives no shits about anything.  Vera's got Mark in surgery, no word yet, but she wasn't the calm of imminent death, so I figure he's got a good shot.  Haruhi and Rosario are still groggy, but they'll be fine; they both got the charcoal treatment, but that was precautionary.  Karl and Dolores are working on those from the North Gate: one died on the way here, but the others--not sure yet."
"Your call," Dean murmurs to Manuel.
"Let's get this over with," Manuel says flatly, nodding at Lee.  "Lee, let's take them down."
The mortuary is one of the few buildings that started life before the Zone as a mortuary; the combination of charming small-town storefront with its function is something he tries not to think about too hard.  The front room--a cross between reception and waiting--is where the staff is gathered under Ana's team's protective eye and keeping them from the door to the basement where the bodies are stored.  
"This everyone?" Manuel asks Ana, who nods sharply. "Clear them out."
"Yes, sir," she answers, and signals her team to start herding the frightened staff toward the front door as they continue down a narrow hall and past a grim looking Lalitha and Cliff through the door and down the basement stairs.  Manuel leads the way, with Cas and Alicia bringing up the tail, so Dean's in the perfect position to see Kat and Cathy sandwiched between her and Lee; their eager expressions are obscene.
Reaching the basement floor, two more of Naresh's people wait outside the door and reluctantly leave at Manuel's dismissal.  Manuel waits until the sound of their feet on the stairs ends with a locked door, then opens the door, and Dean takes in the scene at a glance; Callisto is standing in front of the locked door to the room they keep the bodies with Amanda and Sarah on either side, talking to her quietly while Mel and her team are placed at key points, rifles pointed at the door behind Callisto.  
Dean thinks of what Callisto must have seen in there and gives her credit for more guts than he thinks any civilian--even in the infected zone--should ever have to have.  Just then, almost on cue, Dean hears a baby start to wail, and Christ.  Christ, this is really happening.
"Del," Cathy whispers, starting to the door and only stopped by Manuel's grip on her arm.
"Hey Dean," Amanda says, but her attention is focused Kat.  Even disarmed, Kat's dangerously unpredictable, and he doesn't put using Cathy as a human shield past her right now.  "Manuel, Cas.  All status quo--" Another wail, and Amanda's jaw sets briefly. "Ante."
"Let me go," Cathy says as she tries to pull free. "That's Del, Manuel!"
"Andy!" Kat shouts, looking startled when Amanda shoves her back. "What are you doing?  Andy's in there.  Andy!  I'm coming!"
"Dean?" Amanda asks, staying between Kat and the door.  
"Dean," Kat says desperately, spinning to look at him like she just realized he was there, oblivious to Cas and Manuel both drawing on her, and it's almost like a play. He knows his lines to the letter, could recite this beginning to end, but it's not like she's gonna hear a thing.  "Tell them to open the door!  It's Andy! He's going to be wondering what's going on!"
"Callisto, report," Manuel says calmly.
"There are two individuals inside," Callisto says calmly.  "I was alone when the--the infant appeared on the table, and I heard a voice coming from the unit."  She pauses for a horrible moment.  "From what I heard, the--other individual is probably out now.  They haven't said anything, however."
"Good job," Manuel says, voice gentle.  "Give the key to Amanda and come here."
Amanda's mouth drops open.  "What--"
"You have your orders," Dean tells her, and she shuts her mouth.  "Callisto, give Sarah the key.  It'll be okay." 
He sees Callisto's eyes dart to Cas and wetting her lips, she tries to say something.  Before Dean can stop him--or realize there's something to stop--Cas crosses the room and effortlessly eases between Callisto and the door, hand resting lightly on her back.  Taking a deep breath, Callisto gives the key to Sarah before taking Cas's offered arm with a slight stumble.  
As they pass, he hears Callisto murmuring, "...couldn't make my legs move.  I don't know what happened there.  The sound he made when--in the drawer...."
"I'm impressed you're not catatonic," Cas answers before nodding at Lee and Jane.  "Please escort Callisto upstairs and see to her comfort.  We shouldn't be long."
When they're gone, Dean looks at Amanda, and reluctantly, she steps aside, and Sarah unlocks the door. "Mel," he says, and when they're inside, Manuel lets go of Cathy and steps back.  Kat and Cathy seem too surprised to move, then they dart to the door and go inside.
He waits long enough for Cas to reach him before following Manuel, relieved that Cas has Alicia to worry about right now and won't argue that Dean's keeping himself between him and what's waiting in that room.
When he reaches the doorway, it's all he can do not to run right back out.
Cathy's sitting on one of the dissection tables, crying with a huge smile, a naked baby in her lap; on the other side of the room, Kat has a confused Andy in her arms.  Mel and Daniel have taken positions diagonal of Andy, rifles raised and ready, while Daniel and Lyz keep to the center of the room between him and Dean.  Dean glances at Cas and sees his expression change, automatically pushing Alicia behind him and reaching for Dean.
It's no like he thought it could happen any other way.  "How long?"
"Minutes," he says, then his gaze passes Cathy to Del, resting on her with terrible pity.  "Longer."
Eventually, Kat draws back in belated awareness of Andy's lack of enthusiasm. "Andy?" she asks, cupping his face and frowning when he tries to step back, confusion slowly turning into dawning understanding.  "I fixed it," she says eagerly.  "Now we'll be together."
Andy blinks at her then looks up, searching the room--Daniel's face is streaked with tears, and Lyz is barely holding it together, Mel, David, and Amanda intent, Sarah impassive--and becoming more frantic. "Alicia?" he asks, voice shaking. "Where's Alicia?"
"No--" Kat says as Alicia steps out from behind Cas, saying, "Right here, Andy."
Andy breathes out in relief.  "What's going on?"  His voice breaks on the last word.  "What happened?  We got back inside, right?"
"Andy," she whispers, and jerks a little; glancing down, Dean sees Cas's hand locked around her arm.  "We did, yeah.  Just stay calm, okay?  It's--"
"Shut up," Kat says venomously, tightening her hold on Andy. "Don't listen to her, Andy, she killed you!  I saved you, I fixed everything, it's fine."
"What?"  Andy looks down at her, then at the dingy bandage still covering his forearm. "Wait, I--I remember...."
"I fixed it!" Kat insists.  "You're fine!"
Andy's eyes snap to Alicia.  "I was in Headquarters," he says, holding her eyes.  "I remember--"
"It doesn't matter!" Kat snaps, trying to make him look at her.  "It's not important.  We'll leave, okay?  Go--"
"Alicia?"
"Don't listen to her!" Kat says, jerking Andy's face down. "She killed babies, Andy!  She killed her own baby, she's crazy!  I love you," she says, smiling tremulously.  "Now, let's--"
Andy grabs Kat's wrists, pulling them away from his face as he focuses on Alicia.  "How long?"
"Minutes," she answers.  "I'm so sorry, Andy."
"Oh God."  Grabbing Kat's shoulders, he shoves her away, looking frantically around the room.  "What are you waiting for?  Shoot me!"
"No!" Kat throws herself at him, clinging desperately. "No, you don't understand, it's fine!  It's fixed, there's nothing--"
"Dean?" Mel asks quietly, Andy sighted in her rifle.
Gary, Mark, Drew, Phil, Haruhi, Rosario....
"Andy, listen to me!" Kat begs, and Andy staggers back into the other table, trying frantically to push her away.  "It's fine, what are you doing--"  Staring up into Andy's face, she frowns as it goes blank, a shudder rippling through his body as his hands close over the edge of the table, knuckles white.  "Andy?  What's wrong?"
...four dead and four injured from the North Gate....
"Dean?" Mel asks again, finger resting just short of the trigger.
"On my mark."
Kat looks at Andy in bewilderment.  "Andy?"
...Alicia, and now, again, Andy.
The blank look vanishes; lips curling in a snarl, Andy jerks forward, grabbing Kat, and Dean sees her reflexively drop.  Good enough.  "Mark."
They take out his head in three shots, and Kat scrambles backward, sprinkled in blood and brain.  Eyes wide, she watches Andy's body topple over and hit the floor before she starts to scream.
"Twelve hours in isolation under guard," Dean says.  "At least one person in the room at all times."
"Same," Manuel says flatly, looking at Cathy, who's absorbed in counting Del's toes over and over, oblivious to the blood splatter that sprinkles her jeans.
"I'll take Cathy," Alicia says tonelessly.  "If that's okay, Manuel."
Manuel nods agreement.  "Anyi's team can stay with you after Naresh picks up the other two."
"We'll take Kat," Mel says, not quite lowering her rifle, eyes following Kat's every move while David keeps most of his attention on the remains of Andy: just in case.  
Sarah takes a breath. "I should--"
"No," Mel says gently.  "Nothing worth your time here.  Drew and Phil need you; keep us updated, okay?"
Kat twists around desperately.  "Sarah," she says in relief, and Dean watches numbly as she gets to her feet. "Sarah, please, you have to--Andy--"
Sarah looks at Dean. "Go," he says quietly.  "Joe said Drew's pretty stoned; make sure he doesn't hit on too many of the nurses."
"Sarah?" Kat says frantically, starting toward her, boots sliding out beneath her on the blood-slick floor and landing on her knees.  "Sarah, wait--Sarah...!" Dean automatically blocks Sarah's exit and then hears the click of a safety followed by a strangled gasp before silence descends.  Kat's frozen, half on her knees, bloodshot eyes huge in her blood-streaked face, and the hardest thing Dean's ever done is keep his finger off the trigger.  Move, he tells her silently; one finger, that's all I need.
"Cas," he says instead, "restrain little Miss Fixit, would you?"
He keeps his gaze on Kat's shocked face as Cas wraps an arm around her waist and lifts her bodily from the floor, legs dangling uselessly beneath her.  That actually isn't better, he realizes belatedly; now she's right by Cas and he's really not okay with that.
"Lyz," Cas says calmly, "find a source of water and something clean for the prisoners to wear, scrubs are acceptable; Daniel, find three rooms upstairs with adequate locks; Amanda, please inform the infirmary that we require a sedative for two people." Without hesitation, all three nod, and if they don't hurry to the door, it's only professional pride.  "Dean, due to the risk of contagion, it would be prudent for you and Manuel to leave this building until decontamination has been completed and the prisoners secured.  Joseph, please escort them, if you would."
"Tony's sending two teams for clean-up," Manuel says mildly, wrapping a hand around Dean's wrist and easing it down; by habit, he flicks off the safety and manages to unlock his fingers enough to let Manuel take it. If he works at it, he can almost pretend he doesn't hear multiple sighs of relief.  "Cas, would you mind supervising until the prisoners are in quarantine? Anyi can take it from there."
"Of course," he agrees, indifferent to the Croat blood from Kat on his clothes and arms, a smear on his chin.
"Mel, David," Dean says, and both straighten.  "Stay with Cas until both of them are locked up."
"Yes, sir," Mel says soberly.
"She tries to touch anyone before the twelve hours are up--"
"If either of them does anything I judge objectionable, I'll shoot them," Cas says.  "I'll report when they're secured."
As Joseph herds him and Manuel out the door, he glances back to see Cas lowering Kat to the floor, where she slumps into a pathetic ball, sobbing like she'll never stop.
Cathy never looks up, not once.
@@@@@@
--Day 157, continued--

Naresh arrives only a few minutes after Joe herds him and Manuel outside and onto the deserted road, expressionless and radiating a deadly calm that manages to cow even Kyle into silence.  Or maybe Naresh ordering them taken into custody finally penetrates whatever the fuck made Kyle think anything that happened today was going to end well for him.  As Kyle's herded away, he looks desperately at Dean, but whatever he was going to say is left unspoken when Dean turns away.
It seems like days but is probably only a few minutes before Anyi comes out.  "Cathy's infected."
Manuel pales.  "What?  How?  It was only splatter--"
"Alicia was supervising her in the shower--outside the door," she says quickly when Dean steps forward.  "She saw blood, and Cas went to check.  There's a fresh cut on her inner arm and I verified one on Del's left foot.  I found a broken scalpel in her jeans; she probably picked it up in the morgue when we weren't looking."
Looking between them, Dean realizes neither are surprised. And come to think, neither is he.
"I should have warned Cas--"
"Warned him to let her do it?" Anyi asks softly, and Manuel stiffens.  "Don't tell me you're not thinking it.  If we'd let her do what she wanted to when Del died the first time--"
"Anyi!"
"We wouldn't be in the middle of a redux," Anyi continues hotly.  "Tell me I'm wrong."
"Anyi, it wasn't just Cathy," Dean offers into the charged silence.  "Even if she hadn't been part of it, Kat and Carol would have found another way."
"No one else," she says, still looking at Manuel, "had infirmary and drug cabinet privileges that would have gone along with this.  Sure, they might have pulled off something, but without Cathy--"
"That's enough." Anyi shuts her mouth, jaw tight.  "We'll talk about this later."
"Much later," Cas says, joining them, and Dean blesses Cas's ability to just not give a shit about tension.  "I confirmed Cathy is in first stage as of three minutes ago."
"That fast?" Manuel asks.
"It's been almost an hour since speculated exposure," Cas answers.  "Direct blood transfer to an open wound tends to show more quickly."
Manuel nods tightly.
"Callisto is not infected--which considering she had no direct or even indirect exposure is not a surprise--but she has requested she wait out the remaining three hours it can take first stage to manifest and I confirm she's not infected," Cas continues.  "I asked Ana to keep her company and sent Evelyn to inform Callisto's charges that she's working late and will be home before dawn."
Dean remembers the kids with Callisto at the fire and what Cas told him about who died outside the walls: yeah, they don't need to know about this.
"Thanks, Cas," Manuel says heavily.  "I should have--"
"All of us are stretched thin at the moment," Cas says. "Evelyn offered to stay with them for the rest of the night, as the other adults who would usually be available are on duty at this time or otherwise occupied.  She'll reassure them and keep them distracted until Callisto comes home." Cas hesitates.  "I thought it would also reassure Callisto to know the children are safe and occupied."
Despite everything, Dean smiles at that.  "Good job." He clears his throat, wondering where the roughness came from and why.  "So what next?"
"I verified that Manuel's building is currently unoccupied, so you both will spend the next three hours there, which will put you well past the last possible time for first stage to manifest," Cas says.  "There's almost no chance of infection, but you were both in the mortuary when a Croatoan manifested and were exposed to blood splatter. On your boots," he adds.
Dean looks down when Manuel does: yeah, that.
"Joseph will oversee your decontamination before escorting you there," Cas continues.  "I sent for a change of clothing for you both already.  Alison is being informed now, but I understand that quarantine can be carried out anywhere.  She approved the choice of location."
"Why not here?" Dean asks; he's gonna say this isn't just about the chances of infection.
"For one, I do not think it would be in anyone's interest for it to be discovered Chitaqua's leader and one of the co-leaders of Ichabod's patrol were directly exposed to Croatoan at manifestation, almost non-existent the chances of infection might be.  However, on the off-chance it gets out, we can confirm you both were isolated after."
"He's right," Joe says from behind them.  "There are going to be enough rumors going around about tonight; adding panic to the mix isn't going to help."
To Dean's relief, Manuel doesn't argue.  "I'd like to see Cathy--"
"No," Cas says flatly, and Manuel gets a stubborn look that Dean recognizes from his own face.  "Cathy already deliberately infected one person with Croatoan--"
"Herself!" Manuel interrupts.  "What do you think she's going to do, go after me?  She wouldn't do that!"
"Haruhi and Rosario have been moved to our headquarters and are under observation there, due to the infirmary being rather overburdened with the other survivors of those she didn't go after today," Cas says evenly.  "Which would be my second reason for you to wait out quarantine in another building; I don't want either of you in the same building--or even street--as any of the surviving perpetrators. While I may not technically have any authority over you, I hope you'll see the logic because you aren't going in there until quarantine is ended."
"I do," Anyi says while Dean firmly doesn't admit Cas kind of does have that authority over him.  "Over Manuel, at least.  You know the rules as well as I do; you've been compromised and as third ranking officer in patrol, in the absence of your co-commander, I'm taking command now.  And if you think Teresa would disagree, I'll go get her right now."
"Cathy didn't know what she was doing."
"Sure she did," Anyi answers.  "She was getting her daughter back; everything and everyone else was details.  Now, you want to brief me before you go?"
After a moment, Manuel nods shortly, and Dean takes Cas aside.  "What's going on with Anyi?" Cas gives him a querying look. "Dude, she's taking this personally: why?"
"She just received custody of her daughter, Sera," he answers, adding, "She adopted one of the orphans left behind by the infiltrators."
Huh.  "She sees herself in Cathy's place and doesn't like it."
"No," Cas says slowly, frowning.  "She sees the infiltrators in Cathy and the reason they did what they did to this town.  And why Sera--and those other children--are orphans."
Love, power, jealousy, grief, ambition, revenge, it's always personal, but it's always about you; you don't sell your soul for anyone or anything but yourself.
"Alicia still with Cathy?" 
"Yes," he answers, an edge in his voice. "Technically speaking, she is under quarantine as well due to proximity and the possibility of microscopic blood splatter--"
"She actually said that."
"Yes, but with more words.  I confirmed she wasn't infected, but...." Cas trails off, looking uncertain.
"She wants to see this through." Why is the question, but even Alicia may not have an answer for that one.  All his instincts scream to order her out of there--he gets what Cas meant about him and Manuel being in the same building as Cathy or Kat--but something stops him.  "Is Cathy a danger to her?"  Would Alicia let her be, is what he means; if she hasn't hit threshold on dealing, she's damn close to it, and accidents happen, especially if you're wanting one.
"I talked to Anyi, privately," Cas says, answering both questions.  "Her team has orders to shoot on suspicion.  I doubt there's any physical danger, however.  All Cathy's attention is focused on her daughter."
"You can't think this is a good idea."
"I think it's a terrible idea," Cas answers.  "But I think it would be a much worse idea to make Alicia leave."
Alicia's had enough of her choices taken away today (and during her whole goddamn life); short of suicide by Cathy, she gets to have this one, even if its shitty.  From the corner of his eye, he sees Manuel and Anyi waiting and moves to his least favorite subject.  "Kat?"
"Crying."  Yeah, no surprise there. "Daniel or Liz report to me every thirty minutes, but they've assured me that David and Mel are taking turns holding a gun on her at all times and time their blinks."
"Good." If they get lucky, she'll do something stupid; they aren't, so on a guess, Kat's gonna be just fine come morning.  "Keep me updated, okay?"
"Joseph will run relay between here, the infirmary, and Naresh," Cas confirms.  "He'll report to you hourly."
Dean wants to do something, but he settles for squeezing Cas's shoulder before letting Joe herd them toward their three hour fate.

--Day 158--

"Eddie, right," Manuel says abruptly, rolling the beer bottle between his palms.  "He was an asshole."
Sitting in the armchair caddy corner to the couch, Dean takes a sip from his own bottle.  "Cathy's husband?"
"Asshole," Manuel says darkly.  "Talk about a goddamn cliché; might as well have had 'good ole boy' tattooed on his forehead."
Dean nods: one of those, yeah.
"Didn't like to work, didn't like patrol, didn't like the neighbors, didn't like the community, didn't like our leadership," Manuel continues.  "But he liked eating and living--and drinking, that he could do--and not like you can throw someone out for being an asshole."
"I would," he protests, and Manuel rolls his eyes.  "Cathy?"
"Cathy."  Manuel sighs.  "She worked enough for both of them; gotta give her that.  He went home early; she finished up for him. He spent the night drinking; she always had an excuse and was ready to help.  He went over ration limits; she cut her own.  She thought the sun shined out of his ass, and nothing he did or said changed that."
"I'm guessing that finding out he was gonna be a father didn't reform him."
"Nope."  Manuel finishes the bottle.  "He was pretty happy about it, but luckily we didn't take that as an encouraging sign.  Proved right only a couple of weeks later, when he found out he was still required to take a patrol shift every month."
"Pretty pissed?"  Manuel's expression is eloquent on that score, and there's something else there as well.  "When he was killed...."
"Routine watch," Manuel says flatly.  "No idea what he was doing--though a couple of broken bottles gives me a good guess--and we lost eight people before we even knew anything was attacking us.  Cathy fell apart."
Christ.
"When Del was born--that seemed to help." Manuel opens his third bottle and drinks down half.  "We should have--"
"It's not your fault," Dean says quietly, grabbing Manuel's wrist before he can lift the bottle again.  He thinks he knows another reason why Cas wanted him to stay with Manuel for a few hours.  "You couldn't have stopped her once she knew about the Crossroads."  
"I could have stopped her from going for Del," Manuel whispers, eyes going to the clock on the wall as he finishes off the bottle.  "You want another one?"
"In the mess?" Manuel says incredulously.  "Like--during dinner?"
"They were like that," Dean says, taking a drink.  "Cas said it was like a public sex bucket list or something; they hit everywhere in Chitaqua."
"But the mess...." Manuel trails off. "How far did they get?  Not drunk enough yet minds want to know, no idea why."
"Between all the condiments, no one knows for sure." Manuel makes a horrified sound.  "When we got here for the party, they christened our first headquarters for about four hours and change."
Manuel laughs.  "Laura was looking forward to his arrival.  Like a lot."
"He was asking 'are we there yet' the entire way," he replies. "Or so I was told." He shakes his head as he raises his bottle for a drink. "He's never gonna forgive me for stationing him at the daycare...."
"Dean."  There's a hand on his shoulder, and he sees Manuel looking at him in understanding and realizes the bottle is frozen halfway to his mouth.  He doesn't understand, though; he doesn't know that Dean doesn't know why Gary came to Chitaqua, how old he was, when his birthday was.  Hell, he might not even know his real name; he never asked.  "Another one?"
He nods, realizing belatedly his bottle is empty. "Yeah."  He glances at the clock and away.  "I'd like that."
Dean nurses his latest bottle carefully; he's lost his head for alcohol and for that matter, he can't remember if he ate anything since breakfast and that was forever ago.  He tries not to look at the clock; while they're technically done with the three hour quarantine, he's not leaving Manuel alone here to drink the last hours of Cathy's and Del's lives away.  So he makes Manuel talk, about anything and everything, their first year in Ichabod, when survival was more a hope than a guarantee.  He and Teresa were speed-training civilians on the basics between Antonio, Mercedes, and Dinah teaching everyone how crops worked, and one and all learned how to make cows and pigs into meat, run a power plant, and live a life of much less in the way of gas and not a single goddamn grocery store.
("I learned to ride a horse," Manuel says in the same voice people talk about time spent in warzones (or a vampire nest).  "I need another beer."
Dean looked at his grip on the empty bottle and nodded. "I'll get it.")
It blows his mind; a thousand things he never even thought about, lessons the other Dean probably learned the hard way when he was working on those first camps, that other Chitaquans had to learn by living it.  Ichabod and the other towns didn't have Dean Winchester and those years in Georgia to give them a baseline, army surplus to supply them, or an ex-angel who could compensate for their learning curve; they had Manuel and Teresa and a lot of hope to drive them through how you grow corn, butcher cows, and hold your ground and keep shooting until the monster's dead.
He's not drunk enough to have any excuse when he bursts out with, "How the hell did you survive?"
"Preacher," Manuel says, shaking his head as he finishes his beer, "see choir."
I didn't, Dean silently tells the mouth of his bottle, swallowing the words with a mouthful of beer.  He just waltzed in and is taking credit for it.
Having collected the bottles for the fourth (fifth? Sixth? How the fuck long has it been? It feels like weeks) time, he's trying to decide if Manuel needs more drowning (he'd like to do some of that, come to think) when the front door opens and Mercedes comes in a flurry of cold wind and snow, cheeks burned red from cold and what he suspects was a dead run from the slaughterhouse.
Startled, Manuel puts down his beer and stands up, not quite steady. "I thought you were working until dawn."
"Dina came in and took over," she answers distractedly, shedding her hat and gloves on her way to Manuel, and Dean realizes it's time to go.  "She said--why didn't you call me?  Are you okay?"
Manuel's expression crumples as Mercedes reaches him, and yeah, time to go.  "Manuel," he mouths, grabbing his coat from the back of the chair and gesturing to the door, hoping that's enough.  Going outside, he shuts the door firmly behind him, feeling the hit of cold to his toes, and suddenly wants to see Cas more than he's ever wanted anything in his life. 
He gets Joe at the foot of the steps, grinning up at him from beneath the heavy beard and thinks not bad for second choice.  "Hey," he says. "What are you doing here?"
"Just came by to say Mercedes is on her way," Joe says.  "How the hell did she get here before me?  I just talked to Dina on her way to take Mercedes' shift."
Dean snorts as he shrugs on his coat and comes down the steps, glancing up at the sky; the faint rainbow streaks seem faded, somehow, and while it's not snowing now, there's definitely a feeling more is coming.  They're almost out of time. 
"You're off-duty as of now, by the way; Cas's order," Joe says, shoving his hands into his pockets and looking smug.  "Report to Headquarters, no stalking around the mortuary scaring the civilians."
"You can tell Cas--"
"Did I mention Cas is also at Headquarters and probably in bed by now?"  Dean blinks at him. "I ordered it and so it was done."
"That worked?"
"No," he admits.  "But there's nothing else for him to do and you've both been up since almost dawn.  Anyi brought in two fresh teams to help with watching, so Mel's team can split up and get some rest."  Joe shrugs. "Not that Kat's done more than cry herself to sleep."
So much for really, really belated infection or accidental shooting.  What they need here is less well-trained trigger fingers, but that's what he gets for assigning professionals.  "Lucky her.  Callisto out yet?"
"Cas cleared her and escorted her home," Joe says with a fond smile, and all Dean can think that once upon a time, Cas didn't think he could be anything but Dean Winchester's pet killer.  Like Alicia thought she'd be beaten to death in her cabin or tortured to death by Dean if she didn't say yes, and was probably right.  Why would she think anything else; how many people died in Chitaqua before that attack on Vera and Cas?  He doesn't know their names either; some of them didn't even get that much in Dean's goddamn journal.
"Dean?"
"Human skills," Dean says vaguely. "What about Cathy?"
"Only thing that exists for her is Del.  Anyi already got what they'll need from the infirmary, so it's up to Cathy on when.  Or when Del...you know."
He shoves his hands in his pockets; yeah, he knows.  "Alicia?"
"Anyi said she's fine," Joe answers slowly, and actually, Dean kind of does think he knows why Alicia stayed.  "Dean, what's she doing in there?"


It could be anyone; that's how this works.  "They're friends," he says. "Were, anyway. Probably saying good-bye."  He feels Joe's sharp look.  "Anything on Mark?"
"Cas said he was out of surgery, didn't know much else," Joe says quietly, and Dean almost tells him to stop there.  "I went over, see if Vera could tell me when he'd wake up.  She was helping Dolores with one of the people from the North Gate, but I cornered Chess, and he said--all he knows is that things got dicey, but he's stable now."
"What does that mean?"
"He lost a lot of blood," Joe says bluntly.  "And he's not the only one.  Usha's been taking donations at the YMCA, and she's got all the volunteers she could want, but that took time.  He couldn’t tell me anything else, so I guess we'll find out more in the morning."
Dean makes himself keep walking.  "Drew?"
From the corner of his eye, he sees Joe's shoulders relax.  "Whoever did the original bandaging remembered their hunter first aid and it doesn't look like blood flow was cut off to the limb or at least, not enough to be dangerous.  Two hours and change isn't great when we're talking about a stab wound, but it's not cataclysmic  Worst case scenario is some rehab--Dean, stop looking at your arm."
Dean jerks his gaze up to glare up at Joe. "I was checking out the ground."
"Amanda will work with him," Joe says.  "You taught her and Vera a lot about rehab after injuries, so thanks for that."
Despite himself, he laughs.  "Glad to be of help."
"Our fearless leader," Joe says fondly.  "Going where no one wants to go first."
"Phil?"
The pause is just long enough for Dean to know to brace himself.  "He woke up.  Just a couple of minutes.  Reflexes working, responded to pressure on his big toe and fingers, responded to visual stimulus and sound, so--"
"Responded to sound?" Dean stops short, powdery snow puffing up around his boots.  "What does that mean?"
Joe blows out a breath as he slowly turns around.  "Valli said he responded to her voice when she said his name.  But she wasn't sure he understood her, or recognized his name.  It's too early to even guess, Valli was very clear about that," he adds quickly, which tells Dean that he probably isn't keeping the impassive leader expression he's never bothered working on before; he should get on that.  "What we got so far is really encouraging, which they also told me three times, in case you're curious.  Yes, it would have been great if he woke up asking what the hell just happened and saying his head hurt, but Kyle cracked his fucking skull; this is good news."
Dean doesn't trust his voice, so he nods.
"They moved him to Drew's room; they need the space, and Sarah...was really into the idea.  Valli says familiarity is good, and above all else, when he wakes up, he needs to be calm, and Sarah--well, she can do that."
Sarah beat a Hellhound almost to death until it broke her rifle with the same emotional intensity she gives to breakfast; calm, she can do.  Almost immediately, though, he remembers when she came to talk to him about Kat, her expression in the mortuary.  At this moment, two of her team members are injured and the other one is waiting out quarantine before being taken into custody for murder and that's just to start the list.  "Should she be alone?"
"Yes," Joe says firmly.  "Sarah's not a brooder, she's a....processor."  Dean just avoids a really inappropriate robot joke; it's so not the time (though from Joe's expression, he's thinking the same thing.)  "She sorts out her own head first, and having Drew and Phil will help with that.  Trust me, she will not welcome company right now."
On a guess, that also means him.  "Have Mel check on her when Kat-watch is done," Dean says finally, and Joe nods approval, falling into step beside him as Dean starts walking again.  "Speaking of--anything else I need to know about the prisoners?"
"I checked in with Rohan one last time before I came to get you.  They're going to continue questioning tomorrow when Naresh can handle it, and by that I mean, not likely to just push them out a window and be done with it. Solve a lot of problems that way."
Christ, that's tempting.  "The volunteers at the North Gate weren't Alliance, yeah."
"Wouldn't be better if they were, but at least there'd be procedure to deal with it, not that it's ever been tested."  Joe shakes his head.  "Rohan said they'll collect Kat when the twelve hours are up."  
Dean nods, wondering if she'll still be crying.  Maybe cutting off her water would help with that; can't be good for you to cry that much.  
"By the way, Naresh gave permission for Chitaqua's command--as in, me, you, Cas, or Vera--to see the prisoners.  I talked to Kyle before Rohan put everyone to bed for the night.  Alone, I mean."
Dean concentrates on the snowy road.  "What did he say?"
"It wasn't his fault." Pretty much exactly the answer he expected.  "To hear him talk, Micah did it all when it wasn't Carol, and not saying Carol's not a competent fucking sociopath, but it'd be a trick to do some of it from a wheelchair."
Dean thinks of Bobby, then of Cas's missions with Bobby here. "You'd be surprised what a person can do from a wheelchair."
"Not her first time in one," Joe concedes.  "Anyway, they did everything except the parts everyone knows he did, and even then--"
"Let me guess: Phil went for his gun and he didn't mean to hit him that hard but...he didn't try 'self-defense', did he?"
"Close enough," Joe says shortly, and way too late, he realizes how much Joe wanted extenuating circumstances here.  Sure, Kyle's a dick--and since he wasn't at that confrontation with Erica, he doesn't even know the entire scope--but two years and change fighting together does mean something, the way Dean's few months just doesn't.  Christ, compared to Kyle, Joe barely knows him.
"It could have been any of them," he offers to Joe's tight-lipped silence; from what he heard, Joelle and Jeremy weren't sure in the confusion what went wrong in the hall or who shot Mark or Gary.  Mark might know, but they can't count on that; between the confusion, blood loss, and anesthesia, his memory might not be reliable.  There's Alison, of course, but that will have to wait a few days (if they have them, Christ), and how much she can find out depends a lot on how everyone involved defines 'truth'.  "What else did he say?"
"One thing I do believe," Joe says.  "He was in this to get rid of Micah.  To save us, he said; to get Alicia back and save us in the bargain, he meant."
"He say anything about Alicia?" 
"Other than asking about her and wanting me to take her a message?" Joe rolls his eyes. "I said fuck no to both, Dean; I'm not an idiot.  She doesn't deserve that bullshit."
An image from outside Ichabod flashes through his mind: Erica on one side, Micah on the other, Kyle in waiting, like a trifecta of Alicia's own personal hell.  Bargaining for her, talking at her, fighting over her like dogs with a bone, but even looking straight at her, he doesn't think, even once, that any of them actually saw her.  No fucking wonder Cas said Alicia would never sell her soul; he'd be fucking surprised she even thought of it as her own to sell.
"Dean?"
"Keep going," he says, trying not to think of Alicia in that room with Cathy.  "I gotta hear what Kyle thought was going on."
"I read Naresh's notes before I talked to him, and it's pretty consistent.  Kyle's claiming that last night, he and Kat and Carol came up with a plan to trade Micah to Erica to save us.  Which is interesting that he found out last night--"
"Since Erica didn't threaten us until this morning, yeah."  
"And we didn't get Micah until after that.  To be fair, it wasn't a secret that Micah said Erica was here looking for him, and Carol could confirm," Joe says.  "He admitted he was pretty drunk."
"And he didn't wonder why Cathy was involved?"
Joe makes a sound not unlike Yiddish when growled (or maybe just a growl).  "He says he thought she was just doing it for community spirit--yeah, seriously--but he knew about her kid.  I think he knew she and Kat were planning to deal with Erica, but he might have assumed they were going to trade Micah or something."
"Or just didn't care."  Joe nods grimly.  "Think he would have gotten a clue when Kat gave Micah a weapon."
"Yeah, that part apparently surprised him."
"You don't say?"
"He said they threatened him," Joe continues, suddenly sounding tired, and right: for all he knows, maybe they used to be friends. Bonds of comradeship and defying death together over years, all that.  "The other thing we're still hazy on is what happened at the North Gate.  Jeremy and Joelle were in the second jeep with Carol holding a gun on them and Cathy driving, and Kyle was in the other one with Micah and Kat.  Cathy got out to help, but they couldn't see what was going on, and not like she reported when she got back."
"And Carol's not talking."
"She's not stupid," Joe says bitterly.  "Going to warn you now; it's gonna get out--if it hasn't already--that Carol and Micah were former members of Chitaqua.  My money's on the Idiots Two; someone had to be helping those rumors along for them to spread that fast."
"They do take orders well.  I wonder if they're still here?"
Joe frowns.  "What?"
"I don't know if you noticed, but Carol managed to get a lot of shit done in between surgery, mourning Andy, recruiting Kat, Kyle, and Cathy, and almost dying of gangrene. Gotta give her credit; she didn't fuck around."  Joe looks struck.  "And assuming Erica was telling the truth--and surprise, I believe her--someone had to kill those people who didn't take the deal.  You got other suspects, tell me now; at this point, I wouldn't be surprised by anyone."
"The Idiots Two," Joe says in a voice that makes Dean look at him worriedly. "Here's a thought: I can see some of the refugees going with a Crossroads deal, but why the hell would you just take the word of two guys you never met before and merrily follow them up to a blindspot on the wall to crawl down to do the deed?  There's desperate and stupid and then there's a Darwin waiting to happen."  
Dean hasn't met the Idiots Two--Christ, what are their names again?--but he just doesn't think they had that kind of....  "When did Carol get a chance to even talk to Erica?  She was attacked by a Hellhound on the way here, and I'm pretty sure that wouldn't have happened if she'd already made a deal."
"Micah said he changed his mind about trading Alicia when he saw her outside the walls," Joe says.  "What do you want to bet that Micah went straight to Carol when he bravely escaped the Croats and told her just that?"
"That would explain her mood." And her anger at Alicia, Jesus.  "That's why he did it; easy way to get Carol to do his dirty work.  Micah took Erica's offer to Carol that night or vice-versus; thirty people to deal.  Betting the Idiots Two were one and two, and Christ, I'd love to know what they got from her if it wasn't getting the fuck out of town."
"Invisibility?" Joe's expression darkens.  "So she needed twenty-seven more if we count them and her; she didn't know about Cathy and Kat yet and she only had two nights, and that includes the night Micah talked to Erica for her.  She's in the infirmary, can't get out and recruit souls, and that's a chancy business at the best of times, so...."
"They came to her. Visitors," Dean says, stopping short.  "I thought--Vera said she refused to see them."
"Refused to see them when anyone was watching," Joe says slowly.  "Dean, no one's come forward from her town."
"How many--"
"They came in two groups, but it couldn't have been more than a hundred, tops." Joe's mouth works silently.  "There were kids."
Which would be a very good reason to make a deal.  "Joe, hold up.  We don't know--"
"You think of another way she could get that many people that fast?" Joe interrupts hotly.  "She was protecting that town!  They carried her here on their own goddamn backs after the Hellhound...." Joe's voice trails off.  "Meet the Idiots Two by the Wall at midnight and all your problems will go away.  No, she probably split them up; someone would have noticed a hundred people suddenly going for a late night walk--"
"Not all of them would have gone."
"Sure they would have," Joe answers flatly.  "She didn't tell them what it would cost and no one came back to warn those coming."
Dean looks for a flaw and can't find one.  The town has upwards of twenty thousand people; even if a group was noticed, they've been moving people around to new quarters every time another building is cleared for use, and the refugees are working with Ichabod's crews night and day making that happen.  Twenty, thirty people with kids and whatever bags they brought with them wouldn't get anyone's attention, maybe especially with kids; they'd assume they were moving to another building.
"She was protecting that town!" Joe snaps, turning on him, and he sees the faint glitter of tears.  "They trusted her, and she sold them to Erica. For Micah!  Who the fuck does that?"
Dean starts to laugh before he realizes he's even going to do it.  "She's from Chitaqua," he chokes out.  "That's what we do."
"What--"
"What, you didn't notice?" he continues, swallowing back more laughter; seriously, what the fuck, Joe?  "Going gets tough, we sell souls, doesn't even have to be our own.  Friends, enemies, teammates, whoever's closest, I guess, we're not picky.  Christ, we do it better than Crossroads; I should have asked Crowley about that."
Joe's expression dissolves into worry.  "Dean, come on--"
"Look at our track record; Erica, Stanley, Terry, and Luke did round one, and everyone thought it was such a good idea that we got round two with Micah, Carol, Kat, Kyle, Barney, Stephen....  Doesn't that make you wonder?  Like, who isn't making a deal with the devil?"
"No," Joe says quietly.  "I don't."  
"Sure you do, every day.  Détente, it works, right?" Joe takes a step toward him. "How many people were at Cas's cabin that night, Joe?  You lived in the camp for almost three years and never thought about the odds you were friends with one of 'em?  Spoiler: you are."
"Dean--"
"Can't judge 'em too hard, though," Dean adds, hand aching, clenched to cramping around nothing.  "They were just following tradition, after all, started by your fearless leader!"
The words are out of his mouth and hovering in the air between them before he realizes what he just said.  And he doesn't care.
"Said it yourself," Dean says breathlessly.  "Going where no one else wants to go first."
"You...." Joe stops.  "You didn't--you wouldn't...."
"Why?" he asks bitterly.  "You think me and Erica are all that different?  Sweetheart, you have no fucking idea.  Taught her how to torture demons for fun and profit when she was still human; where do you think I learned that?" Joe's eyes widen.  "Or didn't you know that part?  Surprise."
"No," Joe says, shaking his head.  "I know you--"
"What, a couple of months hanging out and suddenly you think we're friends or something?  You don't know me!" Dean shouts.  "You've never even met me!"
Even this late at night, Ichabod's noise level is only subdued, but right now, there's not a sound; despite the white puffs in front of his face, he can't even hear himself breathe.
"One question," Joe says in a deceptively even voice.  "How much longer on your contract?"
He licks numb lips, feeling lightheaded.  "I don't have one.  Not anymore, anyway.  It's been a while."
Joe nods sharply and turns toward headquarters.  "We should get back."
"Joe--"
"Unless there's something else, sir."
That would be what a punch feels like in five words.  "No."
When they reach Headquarters, Joe takes off for the mess.  Through the open door, Dean makes out Laura with Kamal and Leah on one of the broken down sofas that came from God knows where during Andy's wake.  Like the pro he is, Joe crouches to talk to her, taking her hands in his, and over her head, Kamal's eyes meet his.  Turning away, he makes it up the stairs and down the hall, mind blank as he takes the back stairs to the third floor.  Reaching the door, he jerks it open and walks out into--
"Fuck no," Dean says into the echoing silence, checking behind him; no surprise the goddamn door's gone.  "Really not the time, whoever the fuck you are."  Or were, he guesses.
Annoyed, he watches the nearest walls, but no frescos appear, and looking around, he realizes the couch and blankets are gone, too.  The white walls stay blank, the endless field of marble columns is still endless, but he can't shake the feeling something's off.  Even the silence feels different--there's a weight to it, pushing at him, like it's trying to shove him out.  
Then he looks up and stills; those thousands and thousands of stars are fading. He's pretty sure half of them are gone entirely.
"Okay, where are you?" he asks finally, unnerved, and starts to walk, unable to stop himself from checking behind every column he passes (like she's hiding there or something), looking at every bare, featureless plaster wall (for crazy paintings of sad women from mythology), but nothing changes.  Eventually, he loses sight of the walls entirely, lost in a forest of columns set with mathematical precision beneath a ceiling (sky?) devoid of half its light
It's not like he needs more paintings to tell him how those stories end, though; only Demeter wasn't fucked entirely, just mostly, and she was a goddess.  Mortals don't make out so well when it comes to games the gods play; even when you win, you still lose.  Clytemnestra got seven years and three more kids before her son showed up to avenge his asshole father's death (his sister's murder didn't seem to bother him much, though); Hecuba went crazy after seeing the bodies of her kids; and Medea was turned into a hag, but hey, she got a chariot and a dragon from her granddad, so there's that.  What's the life lesson here, folks?  Revenge is bad, gods are worse, don't combine the two; I bet that helped Cassandra a fucking lot.  Justice: you're kidding, right?  Where was the justice in what happened to them; where were the fucking gods when their lives were destroyed?  Demeter should have let the fucking world burn; hey, how about letting Medea help?
He's not sure how long he's walking, marking his progress by columns: twenty, thirty, fifty, five hundred with no end in sight.  The massive ceiling remains half-dark, its vastness like the stretch of a dying universe; he hears Cas say, like he's right beside him: they've been known to eat galaxies.
"What am I doing here?" he says finally (to the air, the columns, the weight of death; that's what it is, that's what this feels like. It feels like death, like the one he shouldn't have escaped).
"It's not my doing," a voice snaps, and turning around, he sees her standing a few feet away, looking as unnerved as he feels, and tries not to feel relieved she's okay.  The dark hair is pulled back into a coronet around her head, and though her dress and jewels reflect that of a Roman noblewoman, the color's all wrong, a dusty grey just edging into dull charcoal before his eyes.  Opals at her throat and wrists flicker in faint, sickly green and dull blue, veins of angry red more prominent.  "I--"
"I wish you good journey, Germanica," Cornelia says, and they're standing on a grassy rise only a few feet away from a loaded litter, travel wagons already winding down the road.  Looking around, he recognizes Cornelia's villa in Misenum, then his entire attention is on the woman Cornelia's speaking to, because wow.
"I appreciate your hospitality," she answers in a rich, carrying voice that matches the nearly six feet in height.  That's not all that makes her striking, though; the thick mass of black hair is styled into thin locks barely the thickness of a needle and swept up in a thick chignon wound with strands of gold above a face that could be a model for a statue of Venus, the clear, flawless skin a few shades darker than Mira's. It takes him a minute to wonder if he's imagining the glow, but a glance down reveals the discrete mound of her belly beneath the fawn traveling robes: okay, then.
"And yet, I cannot entreat you to take more," Cornelia complains.  "Whatever is lacking? I will remedy it."
Germanica laughs, shaking her head.  "Nothing is wanting but my husband's house and my own bed for my confinement," she answers, patting her belly.  "A second son, I'm sure of it; that gives us two of each, and Titus Annius and I have agreed that will fulfill our duty."
"Four children in seven years, I'd say so," Cornelia answers, tipping her head thoughtfully, and following her gaze, Dean sees three kids chasing each other around the yard.  
A ten year old boy and nine year old girl--both the image of Germanica right down to the large, liquid brown eyes that are gonna break the hearts of a lot of Roman teenagers in a few years--and a brown haired, brown eyed, olive skinned girl with the look of Cornelia that he realizes must be baby Sempronia.  Not so much a baby anymore: about nine or ten, he thinks, measuring her against the kids at the daycare.  She'd been about one when they'd left Rome, Germanica was still a widow, so eight or nine years, got it.  Near another litter, he sees two women handing up a pair of sleepy three year olds, and through the open curtains, another woman is visible holding an infant.  Dean does the math twice (that's more than four, not counting the one not here yet) then remembers that Germanica had two kids with her first husband.  On a guess, that meeting between Annius and Germanica went pretty well.
"I bear easily," Germanica says with a shrug as another woman joins them; not a servant from her elegant dress and cork-heeled sandals to neatly dressed light brown hair and the way she carries herself.  Maybe a friend or cousin, he thinks hazily as she addresses both women with the ease of a noblewoman talking to her equals.
"We're almost ready," she says, then turns a jaundiced eye to Germanica.  "And you should not be on your feet so much."
"Exercise is healthful, Cassia," Germanica answers, and he sees Cornelia bring out her straight face with an effort. A nurse crosses behind Germanica with two of the kids looking cranky and he sees another woman leading a disconsolate little Sempronia away. 
"Standing about in all the dust," she answers severely, and Dean's not surprised that no one points out there's no dust or even a breeze to make some happen. 
"So Titus Annius will join you before your confinement?" Cornelia asks.
"He insists on being present, yes," Germanica agrees with a fond sigh.  "I sent him word of my arrival; he'll doubtless precede me and already have annoyed the midwife with a thousand questions she's answered twice already and at each other birthing. I've suggested he write down her answers, but he cares not for practicality.  Do offer my apologies to Publius Rutilius when you see him; I suspect he was chief confidante."
"I shall miss your company excessively," Cornelia says.  "Send me word of your safe delivery; I will make offerings until I hear you are well."
"Thank you." The two women embrace, then Germanica turns to Cassia with a smile that Dean needs absolutely no time to interpret: that kind of friend.  As one of the men lifts Germanica into the litter and Cassia after her, Cornelia keeps her smile, watching the litters start down the road until they vanish in the near distance.
The smile falls away, and Dean takes a second to blink at the realization that Cornelia is old: near eighty at least.  As she goes back inside, the erect carriage remains, but something else--something more fundamental--is gone.
Then he realizes he's staring at a closed door and this isn't a picture; to his relief, his companion seems stumped by this, too.
"I guess we--go inside?" she says, and looking around the quiet countryside, he's got to agree.  He's not entirely surprised they don't need to open the door to get inside, but he tries not to think about it too hard or he might wonder how they can still walk on the ground and not--yeah, don't think about it.  It's not like this made sense before.
Luckily, villas are pretty much basic as far as layout, and after a few seconds of wondering where Cornelia went, voices lead them to a light, airy sitting room, where he sees Sempronia, looking about a hundred times better than she did in Rome, reading at a small table.  In the privacy of the villa, the braided hair, brown shot with silver grey streaks starting at the temples and winding through the whole, is wound in a thick knot at the back of her head.  The simple country dress suits her better than the more elaborate dresses they wore in Rome, and he notices there's ink on it (and on her nose).
She's not a Licinia or a Germanica (or Sappho), no, but the sharp intelligence and faintly sardonic humor in her face make him think she would have been fun to hang out with.  The kind of girl you meet in a bar, knows your job on a glance, mocks your pick-up lines, then drinks you under the table while telling you all the best gossip about the other patrons and exactly the information you needed to know. If you're lucky--and interesting enough--she takes you home for one hell of a night and tells you at dawn to either get out or make breakfast already.
(You make her breakfast, obviously.  Those were his favorite kind of jobs.)
Beside a low sofa, a servant sits, reading from a scroll, and coming closer, Dean sees someone lying on it, wrapped in woolen blankets despite the warm day.  It takes him a second too long to recognize the shrunken figure; it's Claudia.
He's seen enough death to know the signs, even the non-violent kind; the dark eyes seem to swallow her face, sunken and red-rimmed in a face so pale her skin seems almost transparent, like life is barely clinging beneath.  As the maid finishes, rolling up the scroll, Claudia opens her eyes.  "Bithy?"
"It's time, dominilla," she says softly, and Dean winces at the flash of fear on Claudia's face.
"Surely not yet," Claudia whispers, a faint, sickly color staining her thin cheeks.  "Another hour, perhaps...." Her eyes fly to Sempronia, whose frown vanishes into carefully manufactured attention.  "Sempronia, please.  Another hour?"
"Surely another hour can't do any harm," Sempronia says, eyes flickering to Bithy.
"Domina ordered it at this hour," Bithy says apologetically.  "We must prepare for the--her treatment."
Sempronia looks conflicted but finally nods.  "Let me call Felix to help you, Claudia," she says, turning away from the tears streaming silently down Claudia's face.  When a man appears--Felix?--Claudia shuts her eyes, turning her head away as he bows to Sempronia.
"Take my sister to her cubicle," she says, watching as he goes to the couch, bowing to Claudia before lifting her from her servant's arms with infinite gentleness.  "Please tell Messina to see to Claudia's comfort.  Bithy, a moment, please."
He nods, cradling Claudia like she's made of glass, and Sempronia waits until they're gone before turning back to the maid. "I have seen her little over the last few weeks.  Has she eaten today?"
"She refused the morning meal and took only bread and water at midday, domina."
Sempronia frowns. "She does not grow better despite Emet's treatment."  Bithy shakes her head, eyes dropping at Sempronia's frown.  "When will Emet see her?"
"In an hour, domina."
"I see. Go to my sister now." She nods dismissal, and Bithy makes a quick, relieved obeisance before withdrawing.  Taking a deep breath, she returns to the small desk and picks up the pen, passing it between her fingers with a frown.  
Then Sappho comes in, carrying several sheets of unrolled paper, and Dean can't help thinking country life really agrees with her, too.  A couple of inches taller--probably about Sempronia's height or so--she's out of her teens and it shows; Dean feels a lot less creepy staring at her.
"I know," his companion murmurs huskily, and Dean throws her a curious look.
"Are you into women?" he asks.  "Or were, I guess."
"Dean, look at her," she answers incredulously, and yeah. "I really don't think it matters."
"Your mother is with the steward," Sappho says as she places the papers before Sempronia, and Dean doesn't think he's imagining the way Sempronia looks at her when she bends over, just a little too long (and if she's not, she should).  "I could only read half, so I copied as best I could a sentence from each so you could identify it."  She pulls up a stool as Sempronia picks up the first paper. "Where is Claudia?"
"Her treatment with Emet begins soon," Sempronia answers distractedly, looking down at the papers.  "Etrurian, looks like one of those endless mystic ramblings of a very high ascetic, we've no shortage of those.  Hebrew, that I expected: my grandfather was popular with the Jewish population of Rome, studied with several of their rabbis, I'll have that added that to your studies--Aramaic, Avestan, Persian, Nubian, Bantu--remind me to thank Germanica, her great-grandmother was of their most powerful tribe--and I'll need to check my references for this one. And this...."  She scans the page quickly, murmuring to herself. "I wish I didn't know your penmanship flawless so I might ask if these are words or simply ink blots in random order."  
"It was on the scroll on the third frame," Sappho says, and he sees Sempronia's eyes sharpen as Sappho shifts uncomfortably in place.
"Third frame?"  Sempronia sits back.  "I've only ever seen two."
"She added a third."  Sappho hesitates.  "I saw that scroll in her trunk.  It came a few months ago, I think."
"How can you tell it is the same one?"
Sappho hesitates again.  "Its case was made of iron with many locks, and the--material of the scroll is distinctive.  I know not what it is, but I liked it not even rolled in her chest.  Like fine leather, but not.  Where it came from, I don't know."
"The answer to that is 'anywhere'; my mother's acquaintance is vast," Sempronia answers in exasperation, sitting back.  "Alexandria isn't the only library in the world, only the largest.  We'll need to check again; at least for those from Alexandria, the Librarian surely sent a reference we can use.  Even my mother cannot learn a language from staring at it until it reveals its secrets to her will."
"I wouldn't put it past her," Sappho murmurs, which earns her a snort from Sempronia that he takes as agreement.  "We have had no recent correspondence from Rome."
"I'm aware," Sempronia says with an acidic edge.  "Not since their last very regretful refusal."
"On a guess," Dean says to his companion, "that's the Senate refusing to fix the nefas thing."
"Yes," she agrees bleakly.  "It won't be fixed, Dean.  I tried, too, but even half a century after their deaths, the Senate held a grudge against the Gracchi.  Caesar Pontifex Maximus meant to do it once he became Dictator, but he was assassinated before he could complete his work.  I sometimes wonder...."
He waits, but she frowns into the distance. "What?"
"Caesar came from a long-lived patrician family, and his mind only sharpened with age.  As to be expected: he was descended from the gods and they do love their own."
Now that's interesting.  "What gods?"
"Venus, for one."
"You're telling me the greatest general in history was descended from the goddess of love?" Dean asks incredulously.
She grins at him.  "One of your modern scribblers, I forget the name--did he not say all is fair in love and war?"  He gives her a doubtful look (yeah, he knows the quote, fine).  "Well, we certainly don't go to war for vague liking, Dean.  Love of money, power, position, property, self--"
"Hating the other people?"
"Hatred is what you kill for," she answers, smile fading.  "Love is what you die for.  The first can get you on the field, but the second is the only thing that can keep you there."
"What are all of these?" Sappho asks, and reluctantly, Dean turns his attention back to the room.  "I wrote what I saw, but understanding it....."
"It's not you," Sempronia answers wryly. "There are treatises on mysticism, mythology, philosophy, theology, natural law, the enlightenments of those taking questionable psychedelics...." She frowns.  "The last time she was so obsessed...."
"Before your brother Gaius was murdered," Sappho says very softly, and Sempronia nods.  "What did she do then?"
"Much as she does now; locked herself within her tabilium with all of her books.  Even Cardixa could not coax her to leave for more than the necessary," Sempronia answers.  "She refused entrance to any for two nights and two days; I was on the brink of ordering the door broken open when she emerged, and she looked...." Sempronia meets Sappho's eyes. "She said only that Gaius was dead before retiring to her room with Cardixa."
"Before the messengers came?" Sempronia nods.  "Has she the Sight?"
"No more than a touch, if that," Sempronia answers ruefully.  "My mother is a true Cornelia; even a true Seeing of the end of the world could not distract them from their studies.  No, it was something else, and to this day I know not what."
Sappho's eyes flicker over the scrolls on the table. "Did the servants mention anything unusual when they cleaned the tabilium after she left?  Do you remember?"
"The altar had a burnt offering," she answers with a shrug.  "That means little: it was consecrated to no god and therefore to them all.  I assumed it was for Gaius's safe return, but when they came to me for permission to dispose of it, I remember being surprised at how sparse the ashes."
"Were there markings on the altar?" 
Sempronia frowns, nodding slowly.  "There were, yes.  It needed a thorough cleansing: wax and streaks of soot," she answers, eyes narrowing.  "Which was odd in itself.  The soot--"
"Wasn't on the altar, but around it, like the wax," Sappho says unexpectedly, and Dean takes a step toward her, knowing exactly what she's thinking.  "I know your memory excellent; can you remember what the markings looked like?"
"Of course."  Taking a pen, Sempronia dips it in the ink, neatly scraping the excess on the side before turning over a scroll and making a quick sketch.  "Something like this."
Sappho's mouth tightens before drawing a quick finger across the still-wet ink, smearing the lines, but Dean saw enough to recognize it.  "Not a burnt offering: a summoning."
Sempronia stiffens.  "Why would you think of that?"
At the sound of footsteps, Sappho jumps to her feet, and Sempronia quickly bundles up the papers into neat scrolls while Sappho seats herself among the book buckets at Sempronia's feet.
"I see you are industrious," Cornelia says in amusement from the door, and Dean watches as Sempronia casually hands over the newly made scrolls for Sappho to place in a half-empty bucket.  "Dare I ask?"
"I was reviewing Sappho in her demotic Egyptian," Sempronia says as the last of the papers vanish into the bucket.  Reaching for another scroll, she rolls it open. "Sappho, if you will: we found this one educational."
Sappho stands up gracefully and takes it as Cornelia seats herself on a low couch and looks at them attentively.  "'Lo, he wept bitter tears at their parting, but his duty and desire were clear; the Swamp beckoned him like the most jealous of mistresses. Her rounded curves, vanishing into the slick depths, commanded his attention; her wide eyes demanded his presence; her wide mouth his obedience; her smooth, moon-ripe--'"
"Ripe?" Sempronia asks while Dean experiences something like existential horror.  "Are you certain?"
"So it says," Sappho confirms, glancing down. "To continue: 'her smooth, moon-ripe flesh begged for the application of a gentle hand or perhaps--he dreamed--an inquisitive tongue to offer worship--'" She stops, widening her eyes innocently at Cornelia's expression.  "My command is still faulty, but I do not think he's describing the true form of either god, godling, or Messenger, and I doubt they would take as vessel a--"
"Don't say it," Cornelia breathes, and Dean wonders glumly if they worked out what the fuck happened with him and Anael.  God help him, he wishes he could ask.  They could really use a second opinion. "Where did you find that?"
"Passing strange: in a hidden corner of the cubicle in which you store your clothing, domina," Sappho answers. "In a box surrounded by herbs to ward off evil." Cornelia's still lost in horror when Sappho turns her attention back to the scroll.  "'He wades into the swamp, the water skimming up his well-formed thighs to his hips as if she drew him closer with her own...." Sappho frowns. "Trotters? Is that the word?"
"Close that, burn it, and bury it beneath the next new moon," Cornelia orders hoarsely.  "And we shall never speak of this again."  
"Domina, I do not mean to criticize such elevated text, but what--exactly--does he think he can do with a--"
Sempronia wheezes, head dropping into her arms on the table.
"Give me that," Cornelia orders, and hiding a smile, Sappho demurely crosses to her chair and hands it over.  Cornelia glances at the text for a moment and shudders before rolling it shut.  "It's a metaphor."
Sappho nods agreement. "Then I would like to ask, domina: a metaphor for what?"
Dean spares a glance at Sempronia and grins; she has her head buried in her arms on the table and her shoulders are shaking.  Much better than she was in Rome: he kind of thinks, from the way Cornelia looks at her, amused and annoyed and surprised pleasure all three, that she might be better than she's been in a while.  Maybe years.  
"I don't know and care not to imagine," Cornelia says firmly.  "On a different subject: we should expect Publius by midsummer.  Inform the steward so that his suite is prepared and the cook sends to market so we may have the means to make his favorite dishes.  Also, a suite for a guest."
Sempronia lifts her head, face still red, but Sappho gets in first with a wrinkled nose, saying, "Not another husband?"
"Ye gods," Cornelia mutters, motioning Sappho to a stool as Sempronia rises to join her mother on the low couch.  "No, we shall not be charmed to misery by another one who counts Nia's dowry and the years I have left to live. Which are admittedly few."
"Such nonsense," Sappho states, frowning. "You are of excellent health and sound of limb: he may wait a score of years in vain."
Cornelia bites her lip and exchanges a look with Sempronia.  "Be that as it may--"
"I have liked none of them," Sappho continues with a sense of injury. "Encroaching, forward, I would even call them crass in their unwelcome attentions.  Certainly not worthy of Nia, whose great-grandfather conquered Carthage and should have done the same to Africa if but given a chance."
"Those native to the continent were content with their own rulers," Cornelia answers, straight faced.  "We have contracted alliances with many of them, and it is rude indeed to declare war on friends and allies."
"They offer excellent trade and have armies that rival our own," Sempronia interprets sweetly.  "A friend is but an enemy too strong to conquer, Sappho: remember it."
Cornelia sighs but doesn't correct her, and Sappho asks, "Would that be why these nobleman want to call you friend so very much they won't leave until your assurances are given?"
"Well done," Sempronia praises.  "That would be it."
"You're both incorrigible," Cornelia says, then straightens, eyes flickering to the door, and it's not hard to guess where she wants to be.  "I should return to my work."
Sempronia doesn’t lose her smile. "Your scholarly pursuits do consume you.  Have you discovered anything of interest?"
"So far, little," she answers casually.  Almost absently, her hand goes to her chest, rubbing lightly.  "I think--"
"What did Emet say?" Sempronia asks abruptly.
Cornelia frowns.  "About what?"
"When you told him of the tightness you are experiencing in your chest when you breathe."
Cornelia stiffens, meeting her daughter's eyes.
"You haven't told him."  Drained of animation, Cornelia's face shows her age again.  "Let me accompany you to do so."
"It's age, Sempronia," Cornelia says dismissively, reaching to cover Sempronia's hands with one of her own: the skin is parchment thin over the fine bones, bare of jewelry. "Even he cannot stop time, and I have very little left."
"Mater--"
"If I have two years, it will be more than I expect," Cornelia interrupts.  "That should be time enough, I hope."
"For what?" Sempronia asks, and Cornelia looks away.  "Mater?"
A light rapping interrupts them, and with a suppressed look of relief, Cornelia pulls away. "Come."
A tall woman appears, expression forbidding, and Dean recognizes her as the one that was carrying little Sempronia outside.  "Nia refuses her dinner and insists on debating the matter."
"I will--" Sempronia starts.
"I will see to her," Cornelia says with a fond smile, rising to her feet.
"You mean spoil her," Sempronia says wryly, but the dark gaze is sharp.
"What else is a grandmother for?" She nods to Sappho when she starts to rise.  "Continue your studies with Sempronia, child; I have no need of you. I'll be in my tabilium after I see to Nia.  Germanica's visit was very welcome, but I missed several days of study and I have much to do."
Sempronia waits until Cornelia leaves before turning her attention to the scrolls.  As Sappho starts to gather them, Sempronia says abruptly, "Have you the Sight?" Sappho freezes, a scroll falling from abruptly limp fingers to roll against Sempronia's feet.  "Why did you not tell me?"
"I do not understand--"
"Your Latin is impeccable," Sempronia interrupts, crouching to retrieve it.  "You have nothing to fear; the Sight is given to many.  It's epidemic in the old patrician families; the Fabia and Julia alone produce--Sappho?" Sappho's face is almost grey, eyes wide with the hunted look of a terrified animal.  Sempronia's expression changes. "I never asked; your mother, had she your beauty?  Do you remember?"
Sappho looks up, white lips trembling.  "What?"  Then, voice thready, "Far more so.  She--she was called a siren by some."
"She must have fetched a very high price," Sempronia continues.  "Surprising that you were separated when you were sold.  A beautiful woman with a beautiful child would be an irresistible combination: easily triple the price.  By now, she would have bought her freedom and become a famous courtesan; I wonder now that I never heard of her."
"She was not sold at auction," Sappho says roughly.  "She was crucified with the men when the Romans came."
"Witchcraft, of course," Sempronia mutters in disgust. "That would be the only reason any Roman general would forego such a fortune as she would make for him.  Superstitious idiot: doubtless a provincial.  They're all old women before they discard the bulla of childhood, raised on stories of capricious crones spoiling milk and stealing manhood."
Color returns to Sappho's face.  "How did you--"
"How you spoke of that scroll, for one. For another, you mentioned summoning and recognized the signs; that is impossible in Rome proper and nearly so in most of the provinces under our rule.  Few if any who practice would even think of trying and so wouldn't know what to look for.  You were your mother's apprentice, I assume?  If you had the Sight, she would have started you early.  She must have taught you of that."
Hands knotted in her lap, Sappho nods jerkily, eyes fixed on Sempronia in morbid fascination. "Yes, she--she did."
"A mother's duty, she did well there."  Sempronia studies Sappho intently.  "If I'd known, I would have reassured you before: no fault in you, Sappho, it's our duty to see to our dependents, and Mater hasn't the time.  After that, you had good reason to remain silent on the subject, but know this; there's no reason to be afraid.  It's rare to prosecute a witch, even in Rome proper, and there's certainly no evil in magic itself, only what it is purposed to do.  You've lived here long enough to know that; we trade with the local practitioners regularly, and Emet is an Egyptian priest and practices as well in honor of his gods.  What happened to your mother was unusual--and ridiculous--but--"
"You do not know it all," Sappho whispers, visibly bracing herself.  "She sank the ships they would take."
"So superstitious sailors may have said--and a Roman general believed them?  I feel unwell--but that doesn't make it true."
Sappho shakes her head.  "What you described is a form of summoning, yes, but my mother's teaching was not the only reason I recognized it.  My mother used something like it to call a--a being that wore a living human body as one does their own clothes and trapped its animus within." Sempronia's eyes widen.  "She traded her Self to it for the power to manipulate the realm of Father Neptune and cause ships to flounder so their men could take them."  
"You saw this with your own eyes?" Sempronia asks, coming closer.  "How many summers had you?"
Sappho licks her lips, looking at Sempronia pleadingly.  "Three.  I lied to your mother when she asked my age; I had seen seven summers when the Romans came."  Sempronia nods, expression unchanged.  "The Sight--it came to me early.  She had me confirm what she summoned was what she sought.  I know not what it was--"
"Describe what you saw."
"It spoke as men and walked as men, but it was--it was unclean," Sappho whispers in revulsion. "It's face blackened and burned to char--and the brightness of the animus was trapped within it, unable to escape."
"A demon," Sempronia spits. "In Greece, no less: have the fools learned nothing?  I would not have thought--but the coasts are not well mapped, and poverty leads to desperation.  Demons are a match for any Roman lawyer when it comes to bending natural law; if a single crossroad was neglected...."  She shakes her head, turning her attention back to Sappho.  "You could see it, within the body?  And the animus held captive?"
Sappho nods, horror stark on her face.  Sempronia abruptly drops to her knees, careless of crumpling her skirts, and takes Sappho's hands in hers.  
"I do not hold you responsible for your mother's actions, child."  Sappho's expression changes briefly, a flicker of--something--at 'child' that vanishes as Sempronia continues.  "What your mother did was an abomination, not what she was, and you bear no responsibility for her actions at all.  As for what you are--only you can decide that.  Not your ancestry."
Sappho tries to smile  "How--how un-Roman of you, Sempronia; you know ancestry is everything to a Roman."
"Germanica's great-grandfather was leader of his tribe and he allied with Rome against Carthage due to their aggression against his people; we called them barbarians, but that didn't make it true. He was a fearsome warrior, yes, but that was the least of what he was; he was a skilled general, a gifted statesman and orator, and a famous scholar, who did his duty bravely and with mercy and justice, a worthy son, father, protector, and leader. He and my grandfather were great friends and companions to their deaths; he and his children were granted the citizenship and climbed the cursus honorium to the very consulship on the strength of their character and merits--"
"And a great deal of Cornelian money and influence," Sappho says, looking startled at herself. "Or so they say."
Sempronia grins. "What's more Roman than that?  You met Germanica; she is everything a Roman noblewoman should be, no less than my mother.  My husband was a Roman born of the most august lineage, patrician on both sides, a respected scholar and a great general, but he spent the lives of Roman men like water and betrayed his family and friends as suited his ambitions.  He was not fit for the Cornelii Germanicii to wipe their feet upon.  Ancestry is to be respected, but only in those who prove worthy of it; otherwise, it is less than nothing."
Sappho searches Sempronia's face.  "You're--you're not afraid?"  
"Of what?"
Sappho takes a deep breath.  "Me."
"No, not at all."  Sempronia wets her lips.  "Of what my mother may be doing?  Yes, especially if you're correct about what was on the altar.  However, we can dismiss a successful summoning, at least; the Lares would never permit it here, especially this close to Rome."
"Demons are not the only thing one can summon," Sappho argues, her hands curling into Sempronia's.  "The Lares have no power over beings greater than they."
Sempronia makes a face.  "I don't say my mother would not attempt to summon a god--I can't think of a single reason she wouldn't if she could but find a way--but as she still lives and is not mad, I think we can safely say that it didn't work."
"What if it was something else?"
She stills, eyes fixed on Sappho.
"She knew of your brother's death almost as soon as it occurred, days before the messengers arrived from Rome, correct?"  Sempronia nods.  "You say she has not the Sight; how else would she have known?  If your description of what was found in her room is accurate, there was a summoning, though of what, there's no way to know.  Though as you say, she is alive and not mad, so we can console ourselves it was--probably--not a being of ill-intent."
Sempronia licks her lips. "You think she might be trying again?"
"If she was successful in summoning something--and survived it--that will always be a possibility," Sappho answers. "Who would not if they had some purpose that could fulfill?  However, that is not what concerns me.  When I told you my mother wrecked ships, you did not believe it; you did not think it was possible.  When I told you of the demon, however--"
"Then I believed it; you told me how it could be done.  The impossible is only what has not yet been accomplished.  If there was a way around the Lares, she could find it....no."  Sempronia shakes her head. "No, Sappho, she would not.  My mother is not an ignorant Greek peasant who turned to monsters for succor.  She is a Roman noblewoman, educated, enlightened; she knows there are things you do not do."
"I doubt my mother decided as a child she would turn to monsters to fulfill her purpose, much less become one herself.  I don't think she knew she was a monster at all," Sappho answers, holding Sempronia's surprised eyes.  "The land was salt-poisoned.  Our fisherman could not compete with the Roman fishing industry with their hundreds of ships that would troll our waters and leave us little if anything to catch and no market not already saturated in which to sell it." Sempronia's cheeks flush with hot color.  "She would wreck ships and drown the survivors--sailors and passengers: men, women, children, and babes in arms--so none could tell what they had seen.  But she also went house to house in our village and those nearby to cure children of sickness without asking payment, she blessed the barren fields so we might some crops, poor as they were, and she wept at the graves of the dead.  
"When the Romans came, she hid me among the village children and told me that I was to say I had only four summers and that my mother was dead.  When the Romans searched for me--for it was known she had a daughter with the Sight old enough to assist her, and I was to share her fate--none revealed me even under torture.  They offered freedom, wealth, even citizenship to anyone who would speak; none would.  A monster, yes, I do not deny it, but there was reason for it.  Are Romans so different that they qualify as another kind of being entirely than man?  Are their reasons better when they do evil?" She lowers her eyes with ostentatious submission.  "Though how would I know the ways of the Roman great; I am but an ignorant Greek peasant--"
"I shan't live that down very soon," Sempronia murmurs ruefully, and Sappho looks up, eyebrows raised. "I beg your pardon, Sappho; what I said was cruel and spoken in ignorance.  I was taught better than that.  I know better than that."
"Pardoned," Sappho says after a pregnant moment, mouth twitching, and Dean can't help but wonder if either of them have noticed they're still holding hands.  "I do understand, Sempronia; I love her, too."
"I know."  Sempronia takes a deep breath.  "With the Senate so intractable, she certainly has reason enough to turn to other means of achieving her purpose.  Educated, enlightened, and wealthy: she has the world to search to find what she seeks, buy whatever she finds of interest, and she can read and understand far too much of it.  And who on earth will deny the great Cornelia Africana anything, book or work or scholar, she may want or even ask why she wants it?"
There's a brief silence that Dean assumes is both of them contemplating how the fuck to narrow down the options on what Cornelia's doing when it can literally be 'anything'.
"If I only knew what she was trying to accomplish," Sempronia says in frustration.  "If it is to find a way to pay Charon for my brothers and Licinia--she can't think that would work."
"Why not?"
"All Romans are bound by our contracts with the gods from the moment of our birth or upon grant of citizenship until our deaths," Sempronia explains.  "The terms are negotiable in some ways--we are Romans and we do love the law--but not in others.  In our agreement with Charon, one who does not have a coin to pay cannot cross; the negotiation is the Pontifex Maximus can draw up the necessary contracts with the gods to pay for those who did not have a coin.  No one else is authorized to do so, so it cannot be done."
"And gods won't break contract?"
"With men?  Yes, of course, if they can. With those that worship them, they can't; our offering is our worship and they took it, thus they are bound.  They agreed to the contract we made with them, for we are Romans and think the best of our gods, but--"
"We think the best of them but want a signed contract into perpetuity."
"Exactly," Sempronia says.  "Thus they are double bound.  To break the contract with Rome is to break faith with their worshippers as well; it's both or neither.  The penalty for that--I am not a god so cannot know, but that one exists, I do."
Sappho nods slowly.
"She could appeal to the other gods and beg for redress, of course--as Gaius did to Diana--for the relationship between gods is not something we can know.  Perhaps one might speak to Charon on her behalf and gain their sympathy...."
"I am attempting to imagine your mother begging anyone for anything," Sappho says doubtfully. "I seem to lack imagination, for I cannot."
"I share your lack," Sempronia admits. "Nor can I imagine Charon comprehending such an esoteric concept as 'sympathy'."  She frowns.  "For that matter, to whom would she appeal? Those we share with the Greek are bound by that contract, and our old Roman gods as well--and I, for one, would avoid gaining their attention; they are strange.  Magna Mater, perhaps...we contracted with her less than a hundred years ago, but she tends to prefer more dramatic events to show her power.  Nor has she ever shown much interest in anyone other than the patrician Claudii when it comes to petitioners."
"What of Bona Dea?" Sappho asks.  "We make offerings to her and work in her gardens every turn of the season.  Would she not help?"
"The Good Goddess?" Sappho's eyebrows rise at Sempronia's shock.  "No."
"Why?"
Sempronia shifts uncomfortably, and glancing at his companion, Dean sees a similar expression.
"There are gods of men, and gods of women, and those that are for both," Sempronia begins carefully.  "Bona Dea is none of those.  She is of and for women alone; she will have no truck with men, their gods, or their works.  That's why her temple resides outside Rome's pomerium even though it is tended by the Vestals; Rome is of men, its gods are of men, and no man can step foot within her demesne, nor participate or even be present during her rites.  Bona Dea would never act for any man in any of her aspects, no matter how august or beloved of women; she can't even see them.  Men are not her purpose."  She makes an impatient sound.  "This brings us no closer to discovering what it is she is doing."
"Have you any idea of what exactly it is we buy from the local practitioners other than remedies for bugs, arthritis, and childhood illnesses?" Sappho asks suddenly.  "Ritual magic requires supplies, and some are not the kind you can acquire with ease or without question.  That might narrow the possibilities."
"Spices and herbs we cannot grow easily here.  Emet goes to them for some of his needs," Sempronia answers, troubled.  "The household would have noticed something unusual; they dote upon my mother and watch her health as closely as we do.  That doesn't mean she couldn't find another way to contact them and get what she wants by other means."
"Then it might be time to resume my education in my mother's less-questionable craft," Sappho says, meeting Sempronia's approving eyes. "With my mistress's permission, of course; she would like me to...." She trails off, looking pained. "Why would a patrician Cornelia want her servant to learn from local witches?"
"She'd want someone skilled with herbs and simples," Sempronia says immediately. "She is elderly and her joints do poorly.  For that matter, my joints could use such assistance."
"Oh yes, you're decrepit indeed," Sappho snorts.  "Or so your endless running after the children during Germanica's visit has contradicted utterly."
Sempronia smiles faintly before her expression melts into seriousness.  "That scroll--you think it is more than the simply unpleasant ravings of those who are overly fond of questionable fungus?"
"I know not what that scroll is or its purpose," Sappho answers, "but it is unclean; to touch it makes my skin crawl and to even copy that much for you felt...wrong.  Whatever it is, it is not fit to be read; the only thing it is fit for is consumption in Greek fire.  The fact she hid it worries me, and I doubt it's simply embarrassment, like that hideous story of the boy and his obsession with hippo flesh as metaphor--"  She stops at Sempronia's expression. "It's--not a metaphor?"
"I plan to find out," Sempronia says grimly, and at Sappho's horrified stare, adds defensively, "The text can't be worse than what I'm imagining."
"I would not gamble on that," Sappho says with a shudder.  "I'll acquire it for you.  Where will you keep it?"
"In my sleeping cubicle, in the locked copper chest.  The key lies beneath it."  Sempronia squeezes Sappho's hands one last time before getting to her feet. "I'll continue my research with what you gave me. Tomorrow, go the village and apprentice yourself to the most likely of those we trade with.  We have several books on herb lore that may be of help; if they require an apprentice fee, tell me and I'll help you copy one to give them."
Sappho hesitates. "Your mother--you think she is ill?"
"I spoke to Emet of it already; he told me the same."  Sempronia sighs.  "Also not to worry; her health is otherwise excellent. The Cornelii and Julii have a propensity to totter off to the Senate well into their tenth decade."
"There is something else that worries you, however."
Sempronia slowly lowers herself onto a stool.  "Her illness after Cardixa's death two year ago...Emet said exhaustion from nursing her was perhaps part of it, but now he thinks that she may have suffered a brainstorm.  A small one," she adds quickly when Sappho pales.  "Such things are not uncommon at my mother's age, and obviously she recovered well, but their effects are not always physical or obvious.  It might explain why her studies began to consume her after she recovered; it could have induced a monomania. They tend to strengthen with time, not diminish, but the progress can be so slow there's no way to be certain. My mother has always been focused."
Sappho nods.  "I have heard of such things.  Those so affected must be watched to assure they continue to care for themselves and not lose themselves in their mania."
"I had hoped he was mistaken, but I trust your feelings on the nature of that scroll.  That she would willingly have something like that in her possession could only mean her judgment has been affected.  Which means I must--somehow--discover what it is and what use she has of it."  Her eyes travel to the scrolls with a sour look. "Learn a few new languages, including one composed of evil ink blots, to try to divine the mind of the most intelligent woman Rome has ever produced: simple enough."
Sappho smiles. "Domina did say you were the quickest of her children."
Sempronia snorts as she gets to her feet.  "Nonsense: I have never been a great scholar.  My understanding is no more than average--"
Sappho makes a disparaging sound.  "Yes, yes, you are average in all ways and have never been pretty and your only attraction is your great name and astronomical dowry."  Sempronia blinks slowly at Sappho as she rises. "Your mother says the same of herself, it's maddening; perhaps this is a defect of the brain in the gens Cornelia that I am not aware of?  Know thyself, it is said: you and your mother have not achieved even a passing acquaintance!"
Sempronia stares for a moment longer, blank-faced, before she starts to laugh, cheeks reddening and the wide brown eyes--Cornelia's eyes--filling with light.  Sappho stills, watching her as if standing before a holy image, and Dean's got to wonder how the hell Sempronia can be missing the way Sappho looks at her (though how she missed what was going on during that massage is still up in the air).
"You are strange, Sappho," Sempronia says finally, wiping her eyes, and Sappho immediately arranges her expression to polite annoyance.  "Can you finish this?  I want to see Claudia; do you know what it is Emet recommended for her treatment?  I understood it was simply an alteration in her diet to encourage her to eat, but she has not improved.  She seemed afraid today."
"No, and those assigned to the duty don't speak of it, at least to me," she says.  "When I offered my help, your mother said it was not fit for me."
Sempronia checks her step, frown deepening.  "Interesting."
Dean looks at his companion.  "What's she doing with Claudia?  If she won't eat?"
She shrugs.  "Let's go find out."
Finding Claudia's cubicle isn't easy; the villa is huge and they lose sight of Sempronia a couple of times when servants get in the way. At the farthest end, they catch sight of Sempronia's skirts and follow her down to the very last door.
Sleep cubicles aren't very big in Roman homes, but this one seems a lot bigger, which is probably because there's almost no furniture except a narrow cot in the middle of the room, the head against the wall.  The windowless walls are plain, unadorned plaster, the floor plain tile; the impression isn't a room you live in, but a room you never, ever want to.
A woman--Messina?--rises from the stool with a frightened obeisance as Sempronia approaches.  Looking taken aback by the reaction, Sempronia waves her away and takes her place.  "Little sister," she says, taking Claudia's hand, and Claudia opens her eyes, looking at Sempronia in confusion.  
"Why--" Claudia coughs, dry and harsh. "Why are you here?"
"I wish to help you--"
"No," Claudia says, faint, harsh color staining her face. "No, I will not have it. You must leave!"
"I would agree," Emet says from the doorway, stepping aside as two male servants bring in a table and another a bag, and Bithy brings up the rear, holding something like a glass flask, neck narrowing into a small, stoppered mouth.  As the men start to empty the bag carefully, Bithy sets it on the table like she can't wait to get it out of her hands.  "Sempronia, what are you doing here?"
"She is my sister," Sempronia says, gripping Claudia's hand.
"Please, Sempronia," Claudia whispers.  "Please, leave me this much."  Jerking her hand away, she rolls away, turning her back to Sempronia.  "Emet, make her leave!"
Emet looks at her expressionlessly, then inclines his head to the door. "I would speak to you, Sempronia.  The rest of you, continue in my absence."
Rising from the stool, Sempronia looks at Claudia, then nods, following Emet out of the room.  "What is the meaning of this?"
"Your mother--"
"If she wished my exclusion, she should have told me herself," Sempronia interrupts.  "Emet, please. She is my sister and she is in distress."
"You cannot help," he says finally.  "But if you wish, I will allow you to observe.  Only observe," he adds.  "If I have your promise not to interrupt or interfere." 
"You have it," Sempronia says, turning to the door.
"It is not pleasant, Sempronia."
She pauses.  "What kind of treatment is this? I understood it was a new diet."
"That is part of it.  Sheep's milk mixed with three eggs, honey, and a cup of wine," he says.  "Every third day, the cook adds one cup of finely chopped greens."  Emet tilts his head toward the door. "If you are certain, we should begin."
"I am." Going back into the room, Sempronia looks around.  "Where should I--?"
"There," he says, pointing to a corner of the room.  Dean watches, baffled, as two of the men, Bithy, and Messina go to the bed while the third guy goes to stand by the table.  Then Emet goes to the bed, seating himself on the stool.  "Claudia," he says.  "If you won't take nutrition willingly, we must do this.  Will you--"
"No." The dark eyes open, no tears this time; they're the most alive part of her.  "I won't."
Emet nods, reaching to press Claudia's hand.  "I apologize," he whispers, and rises to his feet, gesturing sharply.  Dean sees the one of the male servants is holding silk cords that he hands to Bithy.
At the foot of the cot, Messina reaches for Claudia's sheet-covered ankles and pulls her to the middle of the bed. Claudia tries to jerk away, but the man is already kneeling at the head of the bed and pins her shoulders down.
That's when Claudia comes to life and starts fighting.
Bithy kneels, catching Claudia's flailing right hand and tying it to the cot while the man on the other side does the same with her left, attaching them to hidden hooks beneath the frame.  Then Bithy and the man both join Messina, the man quickly tying Claudia's ankles together as Bithy secures them as well on another hook.  As fast as they are, it's still an effort; Claudia may be thin, but she can fight.
"What are they doing?" Dean asks (like someone's going to answer) as Emet approaches the cot, holding something he can't make out.
"Hold her head still," he says, and as the servant places a hand on her forehead, pinning her head to the thin mattress, Claudia sucks in a final breath and shuts her mouth tight, tears streaming from her eyes.  "Claudia," Emet says softly.  "Don't do this, please.  Open your mouth."
She glares up at him: fuck yourself.
Emet nods at Bithy, and she goes to the left side of the cot and reaches over, pinching Claudia's nose closed.  
Sempronia takes a faltering step toward the bed, eyes wide with shock. "What are you--" 
"Not now, Sempronia," Emet says, watching Claudia.  There's nothing but horrible silence; Claudia's face slowly reddens, but she won't open her mouth.
"How long...." Sempronia trails off, looking frozen.
"Until she loses consciousness," Emet says flatly.
It feels like hours that they stand there, watching Claudia grow redder and redder, her skeletal hands clenched into tight fists as they wait.  Honest to God, Dean can't imagine she can keep that up.  But she does, until she can't anymore; her eyes fall closed, body going limp, and immediately, Bithy opens her mouth and Emet puts what he was holding inside, fitting it over her teeth. When he draws back, Dean realizes it's some kind of bit to keep her mouth open.
"A reed," he says impatiently, extending a hand, and another man hands it to him; it's thin but long, at least two or three feet.  Checking it quickly, Emet slides the tip between her lips before he starts to stroke her throat.  Expression distant, he doesn't do anything for a long moment, then abruptly pushes what looks like a foot of it into her mouth.
"What the fuck--" Dean starts, but Sempronia's at the foot of the bed.  "What are you doing?"
"I am inducing swallowing so the reed will not enter the airway," Emet answers coolly.  "The bottle, now: we don't have much time."
Now Dean knows why the bottle has that weird narrow mouth; it's almost exactly the size of the opening of the reed, and using a small funnel, he pours the liquid into the reed and straight into her stomach.  He also gets why it's made of glass; Emet watches carefully to keep the flow steady.
It's about half empty when Claudia stirs, and there's almost no transition; the sunken eyes open blearily before widening in horror, and she starts to struggle.  Muffled screams issue from her mouth before she jerks her head back with a choking sound, triggering her own gag reflex, and white foam bubbles up around the reed.
"Turn her head," Emet says to Bithy, holding the reed steady and pausing the flow.  "Claudia, we're almost done; less than a third remains. Messina, Bithy, hold her head still: we'll make this as quick as we can."
That third takes forever, even if it's only a few minutes; Claudia spits and gasps like she's being suffocated, and both men are needed to keep her on the bed, one sitting on her thighs with a hand on her chest to keep her still.  
Finally, the bottle's empty, and Emet efficiently slides the reed back out as Claudia chokes and gags, breaking it in half and then in quarters with surprising viciousness before handing it to a servant.  "Dispose of this," he says, a flicker of revulsion in his voice. As he turns back, Claudia turns her head to vomit up a mouthful of bile and foamy milk directly into Emet's lap.  Dean doesn't blame her, and from his expression, neither does Emet.
"No more," Emet says, nodding at Bithy, who puts a thick wooden stick between Claudia's lips.  Dean wonders what horror comes next, but Emet simply removes the thing holding her mouth open and realizes it's to keep her from biting him while he takes it out: good call there.  "If you expel any more, we have to do it again.  Please, Claudia: be content with what you have won."
Claudia spits weakly, glaring at him, but she swallows hard and nods.  Emet rises, gesturing, and the restraints are removed and Claudia lifted from the bed, soiled sheet discarded.
"Bathe her and see her to bed," Emet says to Bithy and Messina, both of whom look less shaken than they should be (as Dean is); they've done this before, more than once.  "Come and get me when she's ready for sleep."
After Claudia is taken away, the other servants rapidly strip the cot, repack the bag, get the bottle, and leave.  It belatedly occurs to Dean that Sempronia's still at the foot of the bed and hasn't moved; there's a suspicious glassiness to her eyes and though he can't be sure, he thinks she's breathing too fast, chest rising and falling in fast staccato.
Emet must see it as well; when the door shuts, Emet takes Sempronia by the arm and leads her to the bare cot, pushing her down on it before shoving her head down between her knees.
"Seven breaths, as we practiced," he says calmly, placing a hand on her back, fingers spreading across the ribs.  "Inhale deeply, hold for three seconds, then release; I will count.  Think of nothing but the numbers, Sempronia.  One."  There's a long pause.  "Two."
In the same steady voice, he counts to seven and pauses, reaching to touch Sempronia's pulse. "Again, as we practiced.  Inhale and hold for five seconds, then release; I will count. Think only of the numbers, Sempronia.  One."
They go through seven breathes, then a third set with a seven second hold; at the end, Emet checks Sempronia's pulse and nods, hand moving from Sempronia's back.  Slowly, she straightens, pale, mouth tight, but herself.
"I haven't had one of those in a long time," she rasps.  "I thought they were--that they were gone."
"The mind is vast," Emet says quietly.  "And ineffable.  That they chase you still is no fault in you, as I told you before; it's a credit to you that you remembered what to do when they caught you."
She nods, swallowing hard, and some color returns to her face.  "This would be why I was not told the details of Claudia's treatment."
"That is one reason," he answers obliquely.  "Ask, Sempronia; there is no longer any reason for concealment."
"My--my mother ordered that," Sempronia says slowly.  "She knows...."
"When Claudia began to sicken and reject food, your mother came to me and asked me what could be done," Emet answers.  "I gave her the recipe for the drink you saw; even in her weakened state, Claudia could easily tolerate it, and it would keep her relatively healthy.  She spoke to Claudia; if she did not eat, she must drink it each evening.  At first, she allowed Bithy to feed it to her, if not with enthusiasm, with compliance, but eventually, she rejected it as well.  Your mother asked me for options; this was the one she selected."
"You--you told her of this?"
"Yes, I explained the process and she witnessed the first two applications," Emet answers calmly.  "At the beginning, it was not--like this.  Claudia was apathetic during her feeding, but recently she has grown recalcitrant.  As you saw."
"I cannot blame her," Sempronia says in revulsion.  "You can this abuse treatment?  Have you gone mad?"
"Generally, it's a short term solution to feeding a patient unable to care for themselves," Emet explains.  "After a brainstorm or the apoplexy, when a patient suffers from the summer paralysis, or when they have sustained a brain injury that causes them to lapse into a coma, it is sometimes necessary.  Either they recover their faculties well enough to care for themselves and we desist, or--"
"They die," Sempronia finishes for him.  "How long is such a treatment generally administered?"
"A week," he answers. "Two at most.  In very rare cases, when the patient is conscious but immobile or in great pain, we administer it for longer, but with syrup of poppies to keep them at peace and ease their passage from this life.  It is not a treatment that can be maintained indefinitely."
"How long has she been fed like this?"
"Two months."
"Two months?" Sempronia shuts her eyes.  "My mother has gone mad."
"Not mad," Emet corrects her.  "Claudia is all she has of Tiberius Sempronius."
Sempronia opens her eyes.  "How long can Claudia continue like this?"
"The recipe assures that she receives adequate nutrition," he answers.  "The human body is not an equation to be solved with x and y, however; the animus, as you call it, plays a part as well.  She will weaken more, become subject to infection and disease--half a year," he interrupts himself, voice flat.  "That is the longest I've administered it."
"Why?"
"The family insisted," he answers mechanically, the dark eyes fixed on some point in the middle distance, and Dean wonders exactly what he's remembering.
Sempronia sees it, too, and the calm mask of a Roman noblewoman falls into place. "I understand," she says, watching Emet carefully.  "It could not have been easy for your patient."
"He had a brainstorm and did not recover. Despite our best efforts, ulcers developed from being immobile; they grew putrid and began to eat him alive," Emet answers tonelessly.  "He could neither move nor speak, but his eyes--they screamed as one being tortured.  Why should he not: that is what it was, and I his torturer."
Sempronia reaches out, covering the tightly clasped hands with her own.  Startled, he looks at her as if he forgot she was there.  With the doctor's professional calm stripped away, he looks startlingly young.  "Tell me the rest."  
"I was very young," Emet whispers, and it occurs to Dean that Emet is young: thirty, thirty-five at most; how the fuck old was he when they sent him to care for a guy with a stroke?  Why?  "I had just completed my training in the temple when I was assigned to their household.  At least, that was the excuse the High Priest gave when I made a mistake in his sleeping draught."
"A mistake."
"I mixed his syrup of poppies with atropine at triple its maximum dose.  He died in his sleep."  He shakes himself, and Sempronia tactfully withdraws her hand as he resumes the practiced calm of a physician. "The family was not pleased.  So I was sent to Greece and then Rome to continue my studies.  Then I was assigned to the Ambassador's household."  He smiles wryly.  "I never thanked your mother for accepting me into her household; not even the High Priest could refuse a personal request from family of the Lord High Chamberlain for my services if I returned to Egypt, and the Ambassador could only do so much to keep me here." Sempronia sucks in a breath in understanding.  "The needs of Cornelia Africana take precedence, of course, and so by King Ptolemy's order, here I stay as long as I am needed."
"You certainly belong with us," Sempronia says with a flickering smile.  "We are all of us a household that defies the Senate of Rome before breakfast: inbred Macedonian aristocrats are nothing."  Taking a breath, she looks down for a moment before meeting his gaze.  "Claudia--she won't improve, will she?"
"Do not blame your mother, Sempronia; the fault was in me as well.  I thought, given time, she would recover as she did before."  Emet's shoulders bow.  "There is no cure for melancholia, only treatments, and we know not why or how they work, or even if they will.  Claudia doesn't respond to any of them any longer; her condition continues to degrade, and I no longer believe there is hope for it to be arrested, not this time."
"Why??" Sempronia bursts out, and Dean sees tears in her eyes.  "Why--why now...."  She trails off.  "The Senate, their last refusal to order the Pontifex Maximus to pay Charon's fare.  Is that the reason?"
"That was the trigger this time, yes--"
"When we returned to Misenum years ago, she was not well, but you were able to treat her and she improved so much!  Why not this time?"
"Because it is not that simple."  Emet scoots closer and reaches for her hands.  "I have treated men with growths on their bodies that do nothing all their lives; in others, they become putrid and spread, killing them in a few short years or even months; still others, for decades they do nothing and then in a matter of weeks the growths spread and they die."
"What has that to do with--"
"The diseases of the mind are no different," he tells her.  "Like a growth; like the disorder that causes bruising and exhaustion, that kills some and in others, simply eating sheep's liver can keep the patient healthy; like the summer illness that causes paralysis and death for some, yet others it leaves untouched: we can treat them to the best of our abilities, but why eludes us. Melancholia is no different; we cannot see it or the damage it causes, but it is no less a disease because of that, and the damage is just as deadly as any that can be seen.  Like any disease, we can treat it, but that's all we can do.  Sometimes, that is not enough."
"We love her," Sempronia whispers.  "Can that--is that not enough to give her reason to live?"
Emet shakes his head.  "If love were all that was required for a cure, no man would ever sicken, and we would claim an immortality the gods themselves would envy."
"What I saw in this room tonight was not love, but torture."
Emet squeezes Sempronia's hands before releasing them.  "Love can affect judgement as well."
Sempronia is quiet for a long moment, the grief on her face almost painful to witness.  Then she takes a deep breath, wiping away the tears as she meets Emet's eyes.  "It is done."
"Sempronia?"
"It is done," Sempronia repeats, rising to her feet.  "Claudia will not suffer this; I will not have it."
Emet rises as well.  "Your mother--"
"I will speak to my mother," Sempronia answers, starting for the door before pausing to give Emet a tremulous smile.  "Thank you, Emet."
"The gods be with you, Sempronia," he answers, following her from the room. "I'll be with Claudia if I'm needed."
Dean looks at her companion, relieved to see she's as shaken as he is.  "Uh, you want to--"
"Oh yeah," she answers, and they both start at the door.
They only catch up to Sempronia about halfway to the tabilium--Christ, how big is this villa?--but she's not hard to follow this time, just follow the trail of baffled and startled servants staring in the right direction.  Dean watches in admiration as people jump out of her path and even the furniture seems to step back; Sempronia marches through the villa like an invading army.  A single glance sends the steward scrambling back several feet when he tries to stop her when Sempronia reaches the tabilium, and she slams inside because fuck doors.
Cornelia looks up from contemplating something on her desk, blinking slowly at the sight of her daughter.  "Sempronia, what--"
"Rescind the order to force feed Claudia," Sempronia states, coming to a stop a few feet from the desk.  "Immediately."
Cornelia gets to her feet.  "You don't understand--"
"I just watched my sister be tortured for an hour," she interrupts, and Cornelia drops back in her chair, face pale. "Do not tell me I don't understand.  You will rescind the order and allow Claudia her choice."
"Or what?" Cornelia says quietly, and Dean feels a shiver run up his spine; the last time he heard her use that voice, it was giving Decumius his murder-orders.
"Tomorrow evening, I will be in Claudia's room," Sempronia answers, holding her mother's eyes.  "I will block the bed.  I will not allow them to touch her.  If you want her fed, you will need to order the servants to remove me from that room and tie me down.  If you don't want me in her room, you will need to imprison me.  This will end, Mater; you will order it today."
Dean's close enough to see Sempronia's trembling, hands clenched behind her back to control their shaking as she pits herself against the will of the woman who scared the Senate of goddamn Rome.  Senators on the rostra itself flinched when Cornelia looked at them like that; Sempronia just looks straight back.
"If I rescind the order," Cornelia says flatly, "she will die."
"All men die," Sempronia answers.  "So will she.  Her last memories will be of horror and pain and fear; how could they be otherwise?  Let this end, Mater; let her last days be peaceful.  Let her final memories be of her loving mother easing her passage and her sister at her side."
Cornelia's set expression doesn't change.  "She won't take Charon's coin."
"She is of the Gracchi, daughter of Africana in all but blood; to take the coin would be beneath her.  She will do as her sister did before her, and she will join Tiberius and Gaius and Licinia on the shores."
Cornelia seems to shrink.  "She is my daughter," she whispers.  "You would have me send her to madness among the shades?"
"How could she be content crossing to where Tiberius cannot go, where Licinia and Gaius are not?" Sempronia counters.  "We might call it madness, but to her, that may be paradise.  Let us send her with our love, and her memories of that love will sustain her shade in death the way it could not do in life." She wets her lips.  "Please, Mater....let your daughter, let my sister go."
Cornelia doesn't answer, expression unchanged, but Dean can almost feel the slow give; maybe no one but Sempronia could convince her.
"When Scipio died, there were many suitors for your hand," Cornelia says abruptly. "I turned them all away."
"I had no wish for another marriage," Sempronia answers, looking confused.  "I told you that."
"That was not the reason."  Frowning, Sempronia takes the chair across the desk from her mother. "Though of course, that would have been reason enough, but it was convenient you agreed.  I should have--I should have at least tried to change your mind."
"I had no wish for another husband," Sempronia repeats, an edge in her voice.  "Mater--"
"Your father and I were in error when we contracted you to my brother's son," Cornelia continues.  "A bright and intelligent girl has every advantage, but a brilliant one--other than your brothers, there were few men who could hope to match your mind and none who would not grow to envy it.  Finding one superior was impossible--"
Sempronia's expression dissolves into shock.
"--but Scipio was a true Cornelian, or so I thought: a scholar who would see his wife as his partner in all things and encourage the development of her mind."  Cornelia looks at her desk.  "It was your father who told my paterfamilias and my mother--much against their will--that I was to follow in my father's footsteps in scholarship after we were betrothed and my father died.  On our marriage, he encouraged me to continue my education; whatever I wished to study, tutors were found and books acquired, philosophers and mathematicians and scientists and scholars invited to take residence with us.  He bought a scribe who accompanied him on public business and went to both Senate and Committal meetings to transcribe proceedings for me.  He could not take me with him when he traveled on public business, of course, but he wrote me daily when he was away and with those letters came his scribe's reports.  And when his public service ended, his travels through the world included me."
Sempronia nods slowly.
"I thought Scipio would be the same," she says softly, but the ripple of anger in her voice makes the hair rise on the back of Dean's neck.  "My brother adopted him as a man grown to give our name and pre-eminence, so I assumed he was of good character; my brother's judgment was obviously flawed.  I corrected that mistake, but far too late, and that burden I will carry to my death."
From the look on Sempronia's face, this isn't something they've ever discussed.  "I thought...I thought it was because of his role in Tiberius's death."
"It was," Cornelia agrees. "And it was for you.  The first time he touched you in violence, his death was assured; if I'd known before--but that doesn't excuse me."
"I concealed it," she whispers.
"I am your mother; I should have known!" Cornelia swallows.  "I knew he made you unhappy, however, and that should have been enough."
"It wasn't your fault," Sempronia says quietly.  "You must know--"
"I know my daughter suffered," Cornelia answers. "And I could have stopped it.  You returned to your brother's home so changed, so I brought you here, hoping--hoping that would help."
"It did."
"Not as much as I'd hoped," she says.  "And you did loathe every physician that I brought to you."
"One wanted me to eat nothing but beans," Sempronia murmurs, looking pained.  
"Yes, he was an idiot," Cornelia agrees.  "After Emet joined my household, however--I saw my daughter, the girl I raised, once again.  You took up your studies, you became the mother little Sempronia lost, and you're a far better chatelaine of a household than I ever was.  Claudia recovered from Licinia's death under his care as well, and I thought--" Her voice breaks.  "I thought this time, he could do it again, if he just had time."
Getting up, Sempronia circles the desk and leans down to embrace her mother.
"I have few years left," Cornelia whispers.  "Just--if Claudia could wait, we could go together, she and I.  But that is selfish; as selfish as I was when I didn't encourage you to seek another, better man to make you a happy wife.  Instead, I kept you with me, and tried to shelter you from all pain, and in doing that denied you any hope of a family of your own."
"Don't be ridiculous," Sempronia says against her mother's hair.  "You saved me.  You denied me nothing; my family is here."
"You saved yourself," Cornelia says, pulling back to look at Sempronia.  "Not all men--"
"It's not...." Sempronia hesitates, then shakes herself.  "I had no desire for another husband, and I have never regretted that decision.  I have no distaste for men in general due to his treatment of me; if I had, I would have married again just so as not to give Scipio the satisfaction of haunting me after his death, I promise you."
Cornelia chokes on a laugh. "Really, Sempronia."
"Exactly," she says, smiling at her mother. "As Scipio's wife, I met most of the eligible men in Rome, and if I'd ever met one to my taste, I would have perhaps....but there were none.  I will not ever be a happy wife, but I am a happy daughter; would that content you?"
"I would be content," Cornelia says slowly, "if you are a happy woman."
"Then be content," Sempronia answers.  "I am."
Cornelia swallows, veined hands clenched in her lap.  "Claudia should have finished her bath; I will speak to her with Emet present.  If she--it will be her decision, as is right."
Sempronia leans forward recklessly and hugs her mother with a choked sound.  "Thank you."
Cornelia returns the embrace.  "So--"
There's a knock at the door and the steward appears, looking harassed.  "A messenger from Rome has arrived and insists on seeing you immediately.  He said to tell you--" He makes a face. "'For remembrance'."
"I will see him," Cornelia says, standing up immediately, and Sempronia's expression darkens.  "Have him sent to my tabilium immediately."  She smiles at her daughter.  "Go to Claudia's room and tell Emet to wait for me."
"If you wish me to return--"
"There's no need," Cornelia says, still smiling. "Do order the cook to serve dinner in an hour, however; I'll see you then."
Sempronia nods slowly.  "Very well."
As Cornelia puts away her papers, Dean takes the opportunity to check out the tabilium and wonders if Cas would like something like this.  It's at least three times the size of the one in Rome with two full walls of pigeonholes for books, some containing dozens of scrolls. Besides the huge, citrus-wood desk, the only other furniture is a long table scattered with scrolls, paper, pens, and ink wells, and three tall, narrow wooden frames before it, two of which hold paper.  
As Cornelia settles herself at her desk, Dean goes to look closer and realizes the frames are holding giant scrolls. There are handles at the top and bottom which he realizes are to wind or unwind the scroll in either direction.  
Then there's a discreet knock, and Cornelia straightens at her desk.  "Come in."
The door opens to reveal two men: the steward in his immaculate tunic looking carefully non-judgmental of the guy with him, who looks like bathing isn't his thing and is accompanied by the faint but unmistakable smell of onions and garlic.  
"Domina," the steward says formally, bowing.  "Lucius Decumius would like to beg an audience with you."
Decumius grins behind the steward's back, revealing a couple of missing teeth.
"Please come in, Decumius," she says before her gaze flickers to the steward. "You may leave us now."
The steward frowns, but reluctantly, he retreats, and as the door closes, Dean sees Decumius is carrying a large, densely-woven bag slung over his shoulder, the material well-oiled to protect it from the weather.  Not waiting for Cornelia's nod, he comes to the desk, swinging the bag down on the polished surface, and removes a tall, wide earthenware cylinder and then a smaller one, setting both on the desk.
"More books?" Dean asks his companion, who shrugs, looking as baffled as he feels.  The jars are plain enough, though now he can see the metal coating the bottom and stripes of banding up to the metal lids, sealed with wax and secured with dozens of metal-chased leather straps.
"Open it," Cornelia says.  The man's grin widens wolfishly, unfastening the straps in seconds before turning the lid free and reaching inside, taking out a rounded grey--
"Jesus Christ!" Dean stares into dull eyes set in a grey-skinned face that drips fluid, held aloft by a handful of sparse hair.  "What the fuck?"
"Natron solution," his companion answers.  "He must have gone to Egypt for it; no one in the world can reproduce their method when it comes to preservation."
"Why the fuck would you want to preserve...." Dean's eyes travel down to the neck and stop at the sight of sliced grey tendons and neatly sawn bone.  "That's--that's someone's actual head?  Someone's preserved head?"
She looks at him curiously. "What did you think it was?"
How the hell do you answer that?  Up to now, there's been a real lack of preserved heads in his life and God does he wish that were still true.
Getting up, Cornelia circles the desk and Decumius raises the head enough to be level with her own.  "They say Opimius displayed my son's head before his murderers.  It is fitting he should experience that as well."
Opimius: the consul that killed her son and all those other Romans.  "How did she get him in Rome?"
"He was accused of taking bribes from foreign kings," his companion answers. "He went into voluntary exile before it could go to trial."
Dean looks at her, hearing the unspoken. "This time, he was going to be convicted."
"Maiestas, treason against the State," she agrees.  "The penalty: stripped of his citizenship, flogged, and publicly executed, his fortune confiscated, he and his family rendered nefas and left destitute, and his descendants unable to stand for office."
Cornelia didn't fuck around when it came to revenge.  "Like Gaius."
"His fortune still goes to the state and he lost his citizenship in absentia, but he was able to transfer most of his fortune to his sons, provide dowries for his daughters, and settle enough on his wife that she wouldn't be dependent on her dowry alone," she answers.  "And see himself comfortable beyond Cornelia's reach, of course."
Despite himself, his eyes are drawn back to Opimius.  "Where was he?"
"Dyrrachium," she says absently, then frowns for a minute.  "I think you call it Albania now.  All you need is a Grania ship and a map: he wasn't good at this, no."
Cornelia reaches out, prying apart the rubbery grey lips, and her mouth curves in a slow smile.  "His tongue?"
"Here," Decumius says, patting the other container with his free hand.  "Ripped it out myself while he screamed for mercy; no coin for Charon will ever lie beneath it."
Cornelia meets his eyes, dark eyes alight with something Dean doesn't want to identify.  "Well done."
Dean shivers.
"Seal it again and then follow me," she says, and in a few movements, the horror is back in its jar.  Picking up both jars, Decumius follows her behind the desk to a door Dean didn't notice before.  Lighting a lamp, Cornelia raises it as she reaches for the door, and in the brighter light, Dean catches a glimpse of the frame; carved into the soft wood is a doubled set of symbols, shallow enough that even in daylight you probably couldn't see them unless the light hit them just right.
"What's that?" his companion asks. 
He can't make them all out, but he recognizes enough of them to make a good guess, and the pattern is unmistakable.  That's not just warding, not with a doubled line and those symbols; what's in there isn't supposed to get out.  "Containment."
He starts toward them and belatedly realizes he can't; glancing at the floor, he tries again, but it's like there's more floor with every step he takes.  Cornelia opens the door and goes inside, Decumius on her heels, but despite the lamp, the darkness swallows them both almost immediately.  
"What the hell...." He looks at his companion, who looks just as baffled as he feels.  "What's going on?"
Before she can answer, she stills, and they both turn to the door.  Something vaguely familiar lingers in the doorway, something that oozes around the symbols hungrily, searching for a single flaw.  Dean hopes to God Cornelia knew what she was doing when she drew that; whatever that is, it shouldn't even exist, much less get out.  
"Dean?" she whispers, uncertain.  "What is that?"
The door abruptly shuts, and it's gone; that answers one question and opens up about a thousand more.  Shaking his head at her question, he turns to search the room, concentrating; you can't fuck around with shit that feels like that without--
"Contamination," he murmurs, focusing on the third frame, currently empty.  "There we go."
She follows his gaze and Dean just stops himself from grabbing her as she starts toward it  If that's where that scroll was hanging, Sappho was right about it, and how.
"It was here," she says, glancing at him for his nod.  Turning around in a flurry of skirts, she surveys the table.  "Where's the translation?"
Going to the table, he glances over the scrolls and focuses on the parchment still stretched almost flat and freshly sanded, like it's been worked on recently.  He scans the page, not particularly surprised that it's mostly nonsense, entire phrases crossed out, corrections and counter-corrections beneath.  He catalogues the other scrolls: Sanskrit, Pārsa, goddamn pre-Babylonian Akkadian, that shit was old when Hammurabi came to the throne. Religious texts, crazy mystics, natural law, what looks like a few 'shroom trips gone wrong as fuck, and this is just the stuff she's working with right now.  She's barely bothering to translate any of it; from her notes, she can read it as easily as the tongue of her birth.
Looking at the empty frame again, he thinks of those weird not-ink-splotches and of tinder: just enough to fill the center of your palm, left beside each body.  
"For remembrance," he breathes.  "She was marking them."
"Dean?"
"She hasn't got it," he tells her, scanning the scrolls again just to be sure.  Not yet, anyway, but something tells him that's gonna change.
His companion's shoulders slump.  "Ecastor.  All this time, and--then when?"
"Why do you want the translation?"  Her eyes meet his, and suddenly, he gets it. "You know what she was trying to do."
"What she did do," she answers impatiently.  "That scroll may tell me--"
"How she did it?  Why the hell do you want to know...."  She wets her lips, dropping her eyes, and yeah, he's an idiot.  "This is what you've been looking for."
"Dean, you don't understand--"
"Okay, this time, I'll play," he says, leaning back against the table and crossing his arms.  "Help me understand."
"We can't win."
"We haven't even--"
"Spare me your platitudes," she interrupts.  "The Misborn patrol the shores in the Morningstar's name; they terrorize the shades; their numbers are vast and will grow greater--"
"Wait--there's more of them? How?  Lucifer's still breeding them?" He isn't sure where to rate this on the horror scale; Cynothoglys buried in pieces in a pocket of time or unburied to be raped to have more. 
"No," she whispers.  "They're attempting to breed themselves."
He's gonna need a new scale.  "They can do that?" Though come to think of it, why not?  "You said they're dead, so how--?"
"Don't you understand?" she says impatiently. "The Morningstar bred them of gods.  The degenerate offspring of a daughter of Ether and the hybrid sons of Cerberus were sent to where the dead live."
Abruptly, the tabilium vanishes into a darkness so deep it feels endless.  Faintly, he thinks he can hear the sound of rushing water and looking down, he can make out barren ground, or at least, something like ground.  As his eyes adjust, he takes in the vast twilight landscape, featureless and flat, broken only by a faint but steady descent in the same direction as the sound of water.  There's suggestion of motion in the near distance: not the Misborn, he realizes after a frozen moment.  A crowd--a huge crowd, spanning in either direction into infinity--is gathered, and he can just make out individuals among them, drifting like leaves on the wind, without purpose.  In a break between them, he glimpses a massive churning grey breaking white against the outline of rocks: the River Styx.
"The shades," he whispers; those who had no coin to buy passage from Charon on the Barge of the Dead and thus condemned to madness on the very shores of the River. He can see faces now, blurry and indistinct: some blank as a new sheet of paper, others frozen in a rictus of remembered horror or pain or grief, ragged tunics and dresses drifting on a non-existent breeze.  
"Come with me," his companion says, and helpless, Dean follows her over the endless flatness, not even a rock to kick or dust to rise at each footstep, no footprints to show their passage, and there's no sound, none at all.  Looking back, he can still see the shades wandering, hopeless and helpless; somewhere in there are Gaius and Tiberius Gracchus, Licinia and Claudia; he wonders if he'd recognize them if he saw them.  He wonders if he even wants to.
"Here," she says, grabbing his arm, and he stares dizzily down into a massive pit.  He stares into it, unable to look away; a floor of gnawed bones and rotting flesh but worse is those still moving, wearing the living, rotting flesh of dogs and people both, squirming like maggots with human faces twisted into animal snarls, canine faces that gleam with intelligence, attacking each other with claws and fingernails and sharp canines and blunt human teeth.  Screaming and shrieks fill his ears; they copulate in pools of blood on the mangled bodies of their own, groups of half-baby, half-puppy corpses consumed by their own dams and sires....God.
"Lucifer just let them go knowing...." Then stops, remembering who he's talking about here.  "He didn't know."
"Or care--"
"No, he didn't know." How many ways is Lucifer going to accidentally fuck up his own almost-victory?  Holes in reality and monsters who can't die, can't be killed (by them, anyway), eat gods, and now may be able to breed: what the fuck is next?  "You said they're attempting; they haven't pulled it off yet?"
"Half of each litter are stillborn; the remainder don't survive long after birth," she says dully.  "The first litters were miscarried within days. They have become more discriminate in their breeding and do not repeat pairings that fail."  She meets his eyes.  "They are not animals, Dean; they're born of the divine and they know exactly what they do.  Their numbers are vast; it's only a matter of time before they find a pairing that produces viable offspring.  Once they identify it...."
Dean jerks around at a faint, thready sound behind them, his companion with him, and on the shores, there's suddenly a lot of movement.  Without thinking, he starts toward it, and to his surprise, she's beside him.  Halfway there, they both start running; something's happening and it's not good.
This close, he can make them all out, and the faces aren't blank anymore; they're all filled with mindless terror.  "What's going on?" he asks, scanning the area and seeing nothing.  It's only when his foot slides that he looks down into churning grey and realizes he's on the shores of the River itself.  The shades are inches away, but they can't seem to get any closer, scrambling mechanically in the dry dirt like an invisible wall is holding them back.  
No coin for Charon, he reminds himself bitterly; the shades aren't even allowed to fucking try and swim their way to sanity.  What the fuck did Charon need money for, anyway?  Not like they were saving up to build a fucking bridge.
"Dean!" his companion shouts, and Dean turns around. Following her gaze, he looks up, up, and up at--
"Christ," he whispers, mouth dry.
It's like a mastiff, if they came fifty feet high and their skin was made of living, squirming maggots and their bones of rotting stone.  The head's a bare skull ribboned in grey-white strips of ragged flesh like tattered bandages, every inch of it squirming between thousands of tiny black eyes like a mass of dead beetles, dull and swiveling to and fro in constant, nauseating motion.  Swallowing back bile, he watches the ragged mouth gape open in a horrible, shrieking laugh, revealing a cavern of jagged teeth that go on forever, breath puffing out in a noxious yellow mist with acrid smell of rotting, half-digested meat.
This is what Cynothoglys was tortured and raped to make; there's no word for them but obscene.
Looking around, Dean catches his breath; there are dozens of them--hundreds of them--crowding the shades back and back toward the River until they can't go any farther.  He's shoved against his companion, the shades hemming them both in their numbers and their drowning, endless, mindless fear.  He wants to run but his legs won't move; he can't do anything but stare into that horrible face and be terrified.
From the corner of his eyes, he has the impression of movement, and just manages to turn his head in time to see an indistinct figure drift out of the mass of shades.  Slowly, it resolves into a guy in a ragged tunic and the toga of a Roman citizen, gone from white to a dingy grey.  The massive heads of the Misborn slowly turn to see him, another hideous mouth gaping open beneath the first and peeling back to reveal another endless field of teeth. 
A second figure drifts over to join him; a woman, he thinks, colorless hair flowing down her back and a suggestion of tattered skirts forming to brush just above where her ankles might be.  The Misborn grin with all their terrible mouths, a low, almost subliminal growl raising the hair on the back of his neck, and if he could talk--if he could think, if he could move, if he could even breathe--he would tell them not to move, to get away, to fucking run and never stop.
Helpless, he watches three of the Misborn pad toward them, every claw-footed step shaking the world like a rag doll, sending Dean, his companion, and most of the shades tumbling to the ground.  Not those two, though; they just stand there like crazy people--shades, whatever--so small compared to those massive paws, those carbon-black claws, those gaping mouths.  The Misborn could swallow them whole screaming and never notice a thing.  Staring into that horror, they reach out thin wisps of arms to each other, hands clasping. Then they break, spinning around to run straight for the banks of the River.  
In a nerve-shattering chorus of delighted screams, the Misborn give chase.
"No!" Dean's companion struggles to her feet, pushing immobile shades out of her way as she stumbles toward them, her dress and jewelry melting away with every step for worn jeans, a flannel he thinks he recognizes as his (Cas's), Alicia's boots, brown hair twisted into Amanda's severely coiled braid.  He wonders if he should be surprised; this is what they do when they see monsters, after all.
Somehow, he drags himself to his feet, but that doesn't make it any easier; each step is an effort, more than the one before, the shades are like moving through cobwebs made of gum, and terror tries to freeze him every time he thinks of the Misborn.  
One more step he tells himself each time his foot touches the ground, thinking of Vera going back to the cabin from the practice field under the eyes of the monsters who tried to kill her, Cornelia walking the Forum knowing the monsters who killed her sons watched her every step, then Wendy, walking forever to their Headquarters with that message against the power of the monster in her own goddamn mind.  This is nothing.  Just.  One.  More.  Step.
The Misborn give a triumphant howl, and Dean sees his companion's sword flash out.  He doesn't have a weapon; fuck, he doesn't even know how the hell he's gonna fight them, but Amanda was right; they don't do this alone.  Fuck this bullshit, he can move, he's got to; he can fucking run.  
"Stop!" he shouts at her, but she ignores him, eyes on the runners.  The other shades are shoved aside by their progress, revealing the banks and the massive, churning river, so long and wide that it seems to go on forever, draped in an eerie mist as thick as soup.  The Misborn are fucking fast; both are almost on top of the running shades, and with another howl they pounce, the two shades vanishing from sight.  
"No!" his companion shouts, and Dean takes two more steps before lunging desperately, bringing her down before she gets herself killed (or whatever the fuck happens to you here).  "No," she chokes, spitting out dirt and shoving him off as she clambers to her knees. "They can't, they have no right--"
The Misborns' howling loses some of the triumph, and Dean looks up in time to see them skid down the muddy bank, splashing into the water from their own momentum.  Just short of the banks, first Skirt and then Toga push themselves upright from the ground, watching the River intently as the Misborn flounder farther from the bank.  Belatedly, he grabs his companion's arm (the one with the sword, he's not stupid), but she doesn't move, staring at the Misborn. The mist thickens, the water starting to swirl around them, and for all their paddling, they aren't going anywhere.  
He thinks he's seeing things at first, a thin ribbon of orange that vanishes into the churning grey, but there's another one, then another.  They grow wider, like someone dumped orange dye in the water in long stripes.  Paddling more frantically, the Misborn yelp in surprise when one of those ribbons brushes against them, trying to get away, but there are too many of them.  More yelps, their padding becoming flailing as puffs of something grey-black fall into the water.  It takes a moment for him to work out what's going on, but as they twist around, he sees one long orange water-ribbon brush along its back and opens it to bare, charred bone.
"What the hell...."
More wide ribbons of red-orange lace through the water and tip each current as the churning increases, fat red-gold bubbles rising lazily around them and breaking on the surface in spouts like boiling water.  The Misborns' yelps become discordant shrieks, their massive heads catching on fire when an orange-laced wave breaks against them, turning it into half-char. Paddling desperately, hey turn their thousand eyes upstream and abruptly stop struggling, like they're frozen in place.  Following their gaze, he watches in shock as the River's red-ribboned swells grow into a wave of pure red-orange, the leading edge of a river of fire
"Phlegethon," he breathes, startled. He was Styx's lover and killed her with his flames.  His pain and grief and loss threatened to consume the Underworld, so it was confined within the banks of the river that also bore his name.  They were reunited when Hades allowed Styx's river to flow through and mingle with his, but it came with a price, or maybe Hades' idea of a joke.  As long as they flow together, she consumed him as he did her, and he'd destroy her again if they mingled for too long.  At the very last moment, he had to veer away, and into Tartarus itself he emptied his horror and rage.  "How?"
"We are the heirs of Charon," she says, her voice thrumming with a hundred, a thousand, a million voices.  "The Five Rivers are our domain.  We deny them; we reject them.  This is our will, and it will be done."
The wave slams over the Misborn in drowning orange flames, pouring greedily down each of their screaming mouths and bursting out of their skeletal bellies, crumbling bone to grey ash.  More waves follow, battering their dissolving forms until they vanish beneath the water entirely.
Then it's over: the red-orange ribbons thin, looping playfully through the emerging grey currents and vanish into the distance.  The river swells once more in a single grey wave that deposits char-black shapes on the rocky banks.  Crawling free of the water on shaking, skeletal legs, their mouths gape open to howl, revealing all those many teeth again.  
As it turns out, that's a lot more impressive when you're like fifty feet tall and not the size of the average purse-dog.
"You're kidding," he breathes, a hysterical laugh dragging itself from his throat.  They shriek again like a couple of pissed-off Chihuahuas, and he's almost embarrassed for them.  He also wants to dropkick them so badly his foot is itching for it; how the shades are resisting is the real mystery here.
Skirt and Toga both climb to their feet, looking down at the Misborn like the drop-kick solution is on the table as of right now.  The howling trails off as the Misborn realize just how close they are to human foot-size and suddenly begin to yelp, running frantically for their larger brethren to cower bravely behind their massive legs before starting that horrible (purse-dog) shrieking again.  Turning around, Skirt paces toward the larger Misborn before coming to a stop, tilting her head as she looks up at them.  He wonders if she's gotten taller or something; right now, it's almost like she's looking them right in the eye.
Then she smiles and crooks a finger: come and get me. 
Dean's companion tries to shake off his grip on her arm, which isn't happening.  "What is she doing?"
He spares her an incredulous glance.  "Seriously?"
"Shades are only a forgotten memory of who they were," she says impatiently.  "All that's left is madness."
Skirt's smile widens as she regards the unmoving Misborn, and she starts to laugh.
The joyous sound winds down the infinite banks of the River and curls through the masses of shades like the first breeze of a new spring, warm and sweet. It's dawn breaking after the longest, darkest night of your life, bright and new; it's the taste of pie and fresh coffee and cheeseburgers and steak when you're starving; it's cold water after a walk through an infinite desert when you've forgotten everything but thirst; it's falling in love and breaking your heart and doing it all again, right from the start; it's the grief you learn to live with and live beyond; it's when the pain finally starts to end and you're still there; it's eating dirt and then standing back up, every time.
It's the wounds that finally heal, the scars you wear, the memories you won't give up, the dreams you won't lose, the promises you made, the proof that you didn't just survive, you lived.  It's the thousand people you were and are and might be and could become.  It's running full-speed straight to the edge because that's what you do when you see a cliff; you fucking jump.
To the shades who've known nothing but their own forgotten pain for eons, in a barren wasteland gutted of everything, even the memory of hope, it's a revelation.  This is not all there is; we are more.
And then, the River joins her.
Tucked into each current and each lap against the shores, the laughter grows louder, merriment and mockery and challenge all three; soon, it's the only thing he can hear. As one, the Misborn jerk, and he realizes what they're hearing is Charon's laughter.  They stepped from the Barge they lit with their own hands to face Lucifer, his followers, and his abominations on this side of the River Styx, placing themselves in front of the terrified shades, and waited.  The Misborn howled in triumph, unleashed and hungry for the taste of another god; they almost upon Charon when they ceded their domain and their power in full to Elysium, denying even themselves the right to cross again.  They laughed as the Misborn began to eat them alive, laughed as River denied Lucifer's claim and refused him passage, laughed as he stood as helpless as any shade just short of the muddy banks, unable to cross.
They laughed when Lucifer finally killed them: I win.
Still laughing, Skirt dances backward, more substantial now, more like a person and not just the memory of one.  It's like watching a movie going from black and white to color, like the sun coming out from behind a galaxy of clouds: golden skin that pinks across her high cheekbones, the colorless curtain of hair becoming a bright fall of gold, and eyes like the sky in summer meet his for a breathless moment.
He feels himself smile helplessly: talk about a face to launch a thousand ships.
One eyebrow arches in amusement before she twirls away, skirt swirling around her.  Toga takes her hand, their fingers lacing together as their eyes meet for a look as intimate as a kiss, before darting together into the masses of shades, vanishing like smoke.  
As the laughter fades into silence, the Misborn don't move, their thousands and thousands of eyes searching the banks warily.  They eat gods for breakfast (lunch, dinner, dessert, and midnight snack), but a couple of shades own their asses (the River helped, fine), and suddenly, terrorizing them just isn't fun anymore.  Slowly, one by one, the mammoth feet begin to retreat, massive heads turning constantly to survey the cowering shades.  Just in case those scary shades want to laugh at them again.
Or...mostly cowering.  As the masses begin to move again, their figures growing less distinct as they lose themselves again in their own pain, a few stay apart, unmoving, eyes fixed on the ground.  Following their gaze, Dean sees the outline of bare feet in the featureless ground where she danced, and in each step is a burst of brilliant green, fragile blades of grass pushing up through the dust and spring leaves folding open to taste the air, buds opening in shocking blues and pinks.  Almost instantly, they begin to wither, dying brown crumbling to grey ash before his eyes, and the ground smooths them away until even the footprints are gone, unmade, as if they'd never been, a barren wasteland once again.
For a moment, though, it wasn't; for that moment, it was more.
"You see now?" his companion says in a choked voice, sheathing her sword and jerking away from him. "Do you understand the danger we're in?"
"They can't cross the River," Dean says, tearing his gaze from the featureless ground and wondering if he imagined it.
"The River unmakes them, but it won't last.  Soon, there will be more of them; they will breed until they can cross the Rivers on the bodies of their own dissolving brethren that will clog it; they'll invade the realms of the dead one by one--"  She stops short, eyes drifting over the masses of shades around them, like she's trying to figure out how to gather them all up and stuff them somewhere else, somewhere safe.  She turns back to look at him, eyes tear-bright. "I have to save them, don't you understand?"
"I know," he says, wondering how far along that Barge is, though how she'll get the Rivers to let them pass is a mystery.  If she could have done it, he's pretty sure she'd be swimming them over on her back if she had to.  He could help with that, come to think; he knows how to swim, after all.
"Do you?" she asks softly.  "Tell me this, Dean Winchester; how long do you think the Underworld alone will satisfy them?  How long until they've invaded all the realms of the dead and grow bored with hunting us?"  She takes a step toward him, and he just stops himself from backing away.  "Then where will they go?"
He swallows.  "They'll use the Door."
"The living are no more their natural prey than the dead," she says.  "But you'll add variety to palates jaded by such monotonous fare--"
"Stop it."  If they're all able to exist on earth.... "The Door, if you close it--"
"We have no rights to the shores nor the Door," she interrupts.  "If it were that easy, do you think I'd be here?  Do you think I would search Cornelia Africana's memories for what I need?  Only a god can command the Underworld's obedience; the Misborn could be cast to the deepest of pits of Tartarus and sealed within with a word."
"If the god isn't eaten first!" Dean retorts. "If it were that easy, don't you think one of 'em would have done it instead of running, dying, or joining up?"
"I won't make their mistakes."
The thing is, she might be right, and that would probably be worse.  "You felt what was in that room," he tries.  "Whatever it was, she got it from that scroll.  You can't think anything worth having can come from that!"
"If I can save us with it," she answers, straightening her shoulders, like when he asked her what was in her sword, "I don't care."
This is what we do, Dean realizes sickly; this is what we are.  We crawl out of the filth and pretend we're better, but first chance we get, we crawl right back in, eyes wide open.  The road to hell is paved with every lie you ever told to justify what you do; you don't sell your soul for anything or anyone but yourself.  The only true thing is exactly what she said, the reason we do it; we don't care.
"Then who's going to save us from you?"
She takes a step back like he slapped her.  "I wouldn't--"
"You sure about that?"  He snaps his fingers, and the tabilium unfolds around them again.  Not like it was, though; the angles are all wrong, the shadows darkening, deepening, curving more deeply around the table, that third, empty frame.  "Sweetheart, you have no idea, do you?"
"How did you...." Her head jerks around to look at the closed door, hand dropping to the hilt of her sword.  "Do you hear that?"
"Always." Her gaze snaps back to him as he strolls toward her, eyes widening.  "Do you like it?"  She tries to retreat and comes up against the newly formed tabilium wall.  Bracing his hand against the smooth plaster above her head, he smiles down at her.  "Do you?"
Revulsion fills her voice as she answers, "No."
"Don't worry." He leans closer, breathing his next words into her ear.  "The way you're going, you will."
She stiffens, and Dean has just enough time to wonder if he's going to get a sword in the belly before she shoves him backward.  Stumbling, Dean falls. And falls. And falls.
Opening the door to their room, Dean glances inside, but Cas is already asleep, half-sprawled against his pillow like he was too tired to finish laying down before he fell asleep.  Shutting the door carefully, he fights the urge to stare at him (be a creepster), but he's gotta figure out how it works that a billion millennia old angel in a thirty-forty something year old body (with stubble, no less) can look so goddamn young. 
He didn't actually need additional guilt, but the sight of the prescription bottle on the crate by their bed offers it anyway; picking it up, he reads 'Alprazolam' written in marker over the faded label in Vera's painfully neat script.  There's also a candle burning merrily on the bedside crate, the protective glass revealing rich ripples of varying shades of blue and green that smells like early spring.
Shedding his coat, he hesitates before crossing to the balcony door, the curtain pushed back just enough to reveal a glimpse of Ichabod.  He eases open the door just enough to slip outside.  If he wasn't awake before--and he was--the biting cold would do the trick, and so would the memory of the thin rope that Kamal found up here.  Cas, as it turns out, isn't sure about thirty feet and Dean's not sure exactly how many years of his life he lost just thinking about what would have happened if that rope broke.  It feels like another life.
The memory of Joe's face flashes through his mind, freeze-frame locked on shock and horror followed by disgust as he walked to the mess.  It's like the last few month made Joe forget what Chitaqua really was; it wasn't about saving the world, Christ.  It was just another Winchester family tradition, passed down father to son to an entire camp of hunters, that revenge is a life you live, the only victory that counts.
Dean takes in the spread of Ichabod at night, the line of the wall disappearing into an endless, roiling darkness.  The darkness starts to spread across the horizon, parting for glimpses of a jagged red sky, and beneath him, the screams are just beginning; it's like music.
This is what we do; this is what we are; this is what I am.
"No." He tries to force his fisted hand open against the icy stone of the balcony, swallowing back the shock of pain that imbeds itself in his shoulder like a knife, twisting relentlessly with every stuttered breath. That makes the screaming louder, the only thing he can hear, each voice distinct: Grant, Beretta, Beard, Remington, Bushmaster, Micah, do you hear it?  That's gonna be you and so many more, more than he can ever count.  He stares at the rusty gleam of the knife in his hand, leather-wrapped hilt fitting against his palm like it's always been there, like it's never left, like he never left.  He's still there, still crawling in the blood and filth before the empty Throne, he just does it now in a shiny new meatsuit.  Just like Erica said, no one can tell the difference. Maybe there's no difference to tell.  Maybe--
"Dean?"
He jerks around, searching the empty balcony. Frowning, he goes back inside and sees Cas sitting up in bed, one hand rubbing restlessly against an upraised knee.  
"Hey." Closing the door again, he pulls the curtain shut against the cold, then remembers and opens it enough for Cas to have a good view outside. "Did I wake you up?"  
Cas frowns blearily from behind a fall of disastrous bangs; it's goddamn adorable. "I wasn't asleep."  
"You were snoring, dude." 
"I was waiting...never mind." Still frowning, he reaches to turn on the lamp and loops an arm around his knees before his gaze abruptly sharpens.  "What do you have in your hand?" 
Dean freezes, but looking down, he sees his fingers are clenched around the prescription bottle.  Right.  "Sorry, I just--I guess I forgot to put it down." 
"Vera gave it to me when I went to the infirmary before returning to Headquarters," Cas says. "She's currently assisting Dolores with other patients and will be spending the night there when she's done."
Dean remembers the open curtain as he drops the bottle on the crate by the bed.  "Did you need it tonight?" 
"Vera insisted I take one before going to bed," Cas replies, which is an answer, sure, just not to the question he actually asked.  Or maybe it is.  "How is Manuel?"
"Mercedes came off shift when I left," he answers mechanically, wondering what Vera saw that worried her.  "He seemed better, but again, Mercedes."
"Good."  Sitting down on the edge of the bed, Dean toes off his boots, but there's a sense of unreality that he can't shake off, like everything's just an inch off where it should be.  "Dean?"
He jerks, almost ripping his last pair of socks.  "What?" Christ, he used to be better at this.  "Sorry, distracted."  
"I noticed."  Shoving the covers back, Cas scoots closer.  "What's wrong?"
"Christ, what do you think?" he snaps.  "Better question: what isn't? Where the hell have you been?"
Cas freezes, and that, friends, is what it looks like to sucker punch someone with less than twenty words. Downstairs, Joe is drinking away the knowledge Dean Winchester isn't any better than the team leaders, than Erica; Vera's already figured out that between Dean Mark I and Mark II there's no difference at all.  The proof is in the morgue, the infirmary, in Naresh's custody, rotting outside Ichabod's walls, screaming in Hell, and buried somewhere in Chitaqua, the ashes from every death on patrol and the ashes of the man who taught hunters how to be better monsters than anything they would ever hunt.
Cas starts to withdraw.  "Don't," Dean whispers: I think I'm going crazy.  Something's wrong, and I can't remember what it is. I can't even remember why I think something's wrong.  "Sorry.  I just--a fight with Joe.  Did that earlier today with Vera, so figured add in you, got a complete set."
Cas nods, but that doesn't mean much; he's also exhausted, just got woke up by his crazy partner, is taking scripts for their actual intended therapeutic use, and burning a magic candle.  This close, he can see the violet shadows beneath red-rimmed eyes, and hey, maybe he could stop thinking about himself for a few fucking seconds.
"What did you and Joseph argue about?" Cas asks, voice carefully neutral.
"Later." He reaches for Cas's face and tilts it in the candlelight, almost embarrassingly grateful when Cas stills but doesn't pull away.  "Same question you asked me, and yeah, you can tell me to fuck myself."
Cas tries to look away, but Dean tightens his hold. "I'm just tired, that's all.  It's been a long day already and hardly started."
"Tell me about it." He brushes back the dark hair, and for some reason, that makes Cas relax.  "Mind if I join you or should I find a couch tonight?"
"Do you know where I can find a space heater?"
"Nope."
"Then your company would be very much appreciated.  It's very cold." Leaning closer, Cas brushes cool, dry lips against his before abruptly pushing him back.  "Change, please.  Street clothes do not belong in bed."
Dean raises his eyebrows.
"Classical conditioning.  You have only yourself to blame," Cas says mockingly, and Dean grins in relief, sliding out of bed and stripping quickly, finding sweatpants and a long-sleeve t-shirt waiting for him at the foot of the bed, along with socks.  It makes his throat tight.
Climbing back into bed, he shoves back the blankets and reaches for Cas, kissing the surprised curve of his mouth.  It's supposed to be a tease, but something knotted tight within him loosens at the taste of him, the low, breathless sound of Cas's laughter against his lips.  Rolling on his side, he strokes his thumbs over the high cheekbones against the grain of the thick stubble.
"I should have been with you.  At the mortuary." Cas opens his mouth.  "I know, but you shouldn't have had to deal with it alone. Two weights, I get it, but this was like a--a two-weights situation in the same place."  Cas shrugs, the blue eyes flickering away, which Dean's tentatively categorized as a hill Cas may or may not want to die on; let's find out.  "Want to talk about it?"
He shakes his head, hair falling forward to hide his expression.  "Joseph reported to you hourly...."  
He reaches to push the dark hair back, tucking it behind Cas's ear, unable to stop himself; this is still so new, that he can do that after wanting to for so long, since before he understood what it was that he wanted.  Cas leans into the touch; this part, at least, is new for Cas, too.  "Tell me."
"When I had my duties," Cas says softly, breathed like a secret between them, "I thought of only what came next.  Then I was done--at least, Joseph said so--and now I can't seem to think at all. Every time I try, I remember Gary is dead, and so is Andy." He lets out a shaky breath.  "I wish I hadn't disciplined Gary for the incident with the condiments in the mess," he says in a rush.  "Yes, it was psychologically traumatic for witnesses, but no one was physically injured, so why did it matter?  It's ridiculous; why on earth did I care so much about sanitation and mental scarring?  Humans are very psychologically resilient."
"Typical."  It's not hard to see where this is going.  "Alicia."
"She died."  There's something raw in Cas's voice that reminds him of watching Cas bent over Alicia's body.  "I watched her die.  I didn't care if she shot me or anyone else; I just wanted her alive. The rest was details."
He nods; that really does rearrange your priorities fast.
"We talked," Cas adds.  "In the infirmary before...everything."
"How'd that go?"
"I don't know."  Not a surprise.  "I was angry.  I'm still angry, and I haven't forgiven her.  But--what she did....it should matter more than it does."  
He's not sure he ever seriously thought this would go any other way.  Sure, not this sequence of events--Christ, who could--but Cas as a practicing junkie couldn't even manage to avoid half-adopting a traumatized teenager.  For fuck's sake, he got between Erica and Crowley and she organized his goddamn attempted assassination.  Cas sucks at being a nihilistic asshole when it's more than cosmetic.  "It's different when they're your own."
Cas searches his face.  "Is that what it is?"
"There's a reason Justice wears a blindfold."
"That was Fortuna," Cas corrects him.  "Justitia never wore a blindfold; how could she render judgement without clear sight?  She took the advice of her lover, Prudentia, who was reason and knowledge, and who judged actions within the context that they were taken."  Seeing Dean's carefully crafted blank expression, he roll his eyes. "Not just what you did, but why you did it and the circumstances surrounding it, and that doesn't work anymore; I'm just indulging you."
Dean grins, admitting nothing.  "Why was Fortuna blindfolded?"
"Because she played favorites, and it caused problems."  Dean snickers at Cas's annoyed expression before it melts into something darker.  "Have you decided what to do about Alicia?"
It's weird, how the most obvious question in the world still seems to come out of nowhere.  "No," he admits.  "You get I'm not deciding anything without you, right?"
Cas doesn't answer immediately.  "Alicia thinks she'll be leaving Chitaqua."
It's the perfect solution, maybe because it's the only solution; she can even say it's voluntary for reasons whatever and no one has to know why.  Even every other unconfessed assassin, who--as long as they keep their mouths shut--go about their lives.  Unless she decides to give him the names of every living assassin still in Chitaqua, and sure, it's possible--anything's possible--but he's not counting on it.
It's the perfect solution because it's the easiest, and fuck knows, it's not like they get anything easy.
"You're aware that Kyle is blaming Micah for Gary's death and Mark's injuries," Cas says abruptly, and Dean's almost grateful for the change of subject except the subject is goddamn Kyle.
"Yeah."  He strokes down Cas's back, feeling the muscles tense beneath his fingers. "Look, we still have to question Kat--"
"I see no reason to question Kat, other than what Naresh requires, of course.  She'll say the same if she has any sense.  I doubt Kat will confess, in any case."
Dean stiffens.  "You think Kat did it?  Did Jeremy or Joelle--"
"No, but that's beside the point.  It doesn't matter," Cas interrupts.  "Who made the shot is immaterial; Kyle, Kat, Micah, and Cathy all had drawn weapons in that hall, and you don't draw a gun unless you mean to use it.  Which specific gun the bullet came from is irrelevant; they're all guilty of murder." Cas hesitates for a moment, then pushes himself upright to look at Dean.  "If they insist, Carol can be left to Ichabod's justice, but Kyle and Kat should return to Chitaqua with us."
"Why?"
"They should have a hearing, of course, and they may offer a defense, but unless there are special circumstances we're not aware of--that the geas is showing new and unexpectedly convoluted symptoms that includes terrible plans and actual mind control--they should both be executed."
Sitting up, Dean shoves a pillow against the headboard and settles against it; it's that kind of conversation. "Kyle didn't know the real plan."
"That only makes Kyle's crime greater.  Kat was trading a prisoner of Chitaqua to his lover for personal gain, but Kyle believed he was involved in a conspiracy to kidnap a human being under Chitaqua's protection and deliver them to what we were protecting him from, a demon."
No hunter could even think that without a flinch, and Dean's no different.  "Yeah."
"I would have put a bullet in Micah's head without regret," Cas continues.  "I would have agreed to exile him outside the wall with ten days' worth of rations, a gun, and a knife, though he certainly didn't deserve the mercy.  He didn't deserve to be unwillingly traded to a demon, however; no one deserves that.  That it wasn't true is irrelevant; it was true for Kyle.  He didn't merely betray us; he betrayed everything we are." 
Three weeks ago, Dean executed two people outside the Ichabod's daycare who sold out fifteen kids--and an entire town--to demons and doesn't regret a thing.  You can't be a hunter and do what those people, what Kyle did; he's not sure you can do that and still be people.
"Yeah," he says finally; he doesn't regret this, either. "I know."
Cas relaxes.  "I don't know how easy it will be to get Ichabod's agreement."
Yeah, they're gonna need to talk to Joe.  If Joe ever speaks to him again, and yeah, not thinking about that right now.  "We'll figure it out," he says quickly.  "Still not sure what the hell Kat was doing."
Cas raises an eloquently incredulous eyebrow (he's reading eyebrows now, what the hell happened to him?).
"All she had to do was rappel down the wall and walk to a crossroad and we'd never know until we heard the screaming from the mortuary.  Carol needed her and Cathy, yeah, but Kat didn't need them, so why?"
"She didn't," Cas answers.  "She needed to get out of our Headquarters and then Ichabod without being stopped or shot by Ichabod's patrol, buy herself enough time to deal with Erica--and for that matter, not be killed by her or another demon instead--and be allowed back inside after she was done to retrieve Andy.  And then escape with him, of course, though how she planned to accomplish that part is still a mystery I have no desire to solve.  Carol's plan gave her everything she needed, and that plan required Carol's participation.  What happened to everyone else was of no interest to her."
"Cathy to separate her watchers," Dean says slowly. "Kyle as muscle, and Jeremy--and bonus Joelle--as hostages to get her back inside the walls when she was done?" 
"Or some variation with those key elements, yes.  During the planning, Carol and Kat must have made provision for Micah remaining in Naresh's custody, and Kyle would be needed to help with Naresh's people as well as deal with Kat's team.  She couldn't have hoped to win against all three of her team in that room, but she and Kyle together could handle two."
Dean's not so sure about that.  He remembers Sarah restraining Kat after Andy's death; unlike Drew, she wasn't fucking around keeping Kat down, and she wouldn't have hesitated to knock Kat out if she did anything she didn't like.  If Sarah had been the one to go downstairs to talk to Cathy, there's no way Kyle could have gotten her from behind.  He watched Sarah from Ichabod's walls, and a woman who could sneak up on a Hellhound and beat it almost to death after working out its position from at least twenty feet away using Cas and fucking snow isn't someone you could sneak up on.  She'd have had Kyle on the ground before he could so much as raise that goddamn gun to hit her.  Unless he shot her in the back, of course; two years and change fighting together means he probably knows better than Dean what will work and what won't.  
If Sarah had been in that room, though....Kat wasn't stupid, or at least not that stupid.  She'd know she'd only get one try at Sarah and it would have to count.  And Sarah--he remembers her expression when she came to him about Kat's behavior.  Just a split-second hesitation because Kat was team--that would have done it.
"Joelle was a very useful bonus," Cas adds, almost casually.  "It not only gave them two hostages to use to negotiate with on their return, but prevented Jeremy from--doing anything imprudent."
Without a gun to Joelle's head, nothing would have stopped Jeremy from going for his when Phil went down.  And then--shooting to disable instead of kill is a lot harder than it looks in the movies, and he doubts Kyle's reaction to being drawn on would be anything but lethal.
(Without that gun to Joelle's head, Kyle, Kat, Carol, Cathy, and Micah would all be dead at Zero, Erica's career as a demon would be over with Ruby's knife in her chest, and Alicia wouldn't have learned how it felt to die.  He doubts Cas would have waited any longer than getting a clear shot, and knowing Cas's range, that could have been way before the jeep even stopped.  
After that....he can live without wondering too hard about that.)
"Jeremy did good," Dean says, because it's true, and because it takes the set expression off Cas's face.  "He and Joelle with that demon...."
"Maimouna was impressed as well."  Almost immediately, the amusement fades into something that makes him wonder about the time between Cas and Alicia arriving at Headquarters to an empty lobby and reaching Zero; that must have felt like years.  "Under the circumstances, Maimouna requested that Jeremy stay with her and Joelle tonight.  With Vera, Joseph, and I unavailable and the rest of the militia on alert, she thought I'd prefer Jeremy wasn't alone."
"Who'd you send over there with them?" There's no goddamn way Cas let Jeremy out of this building without at least--
"Maimouna's floor has several empty rooms, and Lee's team volunteered; they said they could sleep there as well as here."
An entire team, should have guessed.  "Was that Joelle's first time?"  Cas nods, and Dean adds her to his mental list; when she passes her eighteenth birthday, if she still wants to do this, she's in Amanda's next class.  You can't teach people like her not to throw themselves between people and danger, so they're going to have to teach her how to survive it.  "Good call.  Easier to talk to someone her own age."
"Maimouna mentioned that," Cas says wryly. "I checked on them before I went off duty; Maimouna told me they played Gin Rummy with Kenjo, Devansh, and Marilee before they went to sleep. He'll report first thing in the morning."
Dean's just about to suggest sleep when Cas reaches out in a blur of motion--God, he never gets tired of seeing that--and catches his wrist.  Turning his hand over, he frowns with professional concern at Dean's fucked-up hand.  "I should have checked it when you arrived."
"It's not your job--"
"I'd like to see you try to fire me," Cas interrupts.  "Sit up."
Dean seriously thinks about ignoring him--he's sick and tired of goddamn hand drama--but a cramp ripples through the palm, jerking his hand half-closed and killing whatever he had of plausible deniability at birth (and newsflash: he didn't have much anyway). 
"Fine," he says ungraciously.
"Thank you," Cas says with exactly the right amount of sincerity to broadcast 'you're an idiot' to anyone in range of his voice.  "Extend your fingers--don't force it."  Dean complies, relieved he's at over three-quarters extension before he can feel the strain. "Make a fist--slowly."  He gets why Cas said slowly; the faint tremble he hadn't even noticed is obvious now, and he wonders how long it's been doing that.  Cradling the back of his hand, Cas slides his thumb from heel to the first joint of his middle finger.  "Just overuse, but that couldn't be helped today.  Any cramping?"
"Yeah.  A little."
Cas slides off the bed.  "Give me a moment, and I'll get the lotion."
Dean stares at his clenched hand, listening to Cas go through their bag and the pad of his feet on the floor as he returns.  The bed dips, and Cas settles cross-legged beside him, reaching for his hand again and spreading it on his knees.  He remembers what Cas said last night; it's not just his job but a privilege.  This is something Cas wants to do and plans to keep doing.  Like sharing a bed and a cabin and that thing people call a life.
Cas saw what he did to Grant, listened to him talk about nightmares of Hell, and that's nothing to what he must have seen when he met Dean there himself, nothing to the memories he took before bringing Dean back to earth.  He's still here; he still wants to be.  
"There's nothing in my hand." The words cling to his tongue, try to stick between his teeth, but he gets them out there.
Pouring lotion in his palm to warm it--and that's just, he just does that, warms up the lotion first, doesn't even think about it--Cas nods.  "There's not, no."  Reaching for Dean's hand, he starts at the center of the palm right where the muscles cramp worst.
"Sometimes, there is," Dean whispers.  "I just--just can't see it."
"A knife?"
Dean's head snaps up so fast he almost pulls something.  "How did you...." He tries again. "How?"
"You told me," he answers as the tips of his fingers work over Dean's knuckles.  "In Volunteer Services, when the geas broke and you thought that you killed those four people, you told me you could still feel it in your hand.  When I asked what, you said 'your knife'."  Cas glances up.  "You said 'sometimes'; it's not constant?"
"No."  He stares at his hand very hard. Either Cas is hiding utter horror better than anyone ever (not impossible) while doing a fucking expert massage or--  "There's more. At Volunteer Services, I thought you were dead."
"Yes, seeing me alive was enough to break the geas," Cas agrees.  "Useful--
"Yeah, good job being alive.  The dead woman--before I catalyzed, I kept seeing your face while I was getting people out."
"Interesting," Cas says in the voice of scientific curiosity. "You resisted catalyzation.  That may be another reason we have had so comparatively few actual incidents; there is resistance, and it may need time to wear down--"
"Yeah, really interesting," Dean interrupts desperately.  "The last time, there was a gunshot--at least, I thought I heard one--and when I saw you--the body-- I knew they'd shot you, that they killed you." Cas nods.  "Like every other time."
That checks the nod.  "What other times?"
"Those nightmares I was having before we came to Ichabod, to start.  Where I'd get to the cabin right after the team leaders killed you and Vera, before I could stop them."
Cas's head comes up sharply.  "What?"
"It was different every night--how you died, I mean--but I always got there too late, after you and Vera were dead." Fuck, just get it out there.  "It changed when we got to Ichabod.  Our first night here, after what happened in the street earlier, I dreamed about that.  Mob of people killed you right there, and when I found you, you were dead."
"And after that?"
"They stopped.  I mean, I don't remember any dreams after that." Cas's expression isn't reassuring here; he should work on that.  "Cas?" 
"I don't...." Reaching for the lotion, Cas pours out more, then takes Dean's hand again.  "That was what you wouldn't tell me you were dreaming about?  My death, before you--before you were even here?"
Dean expected awkward (to understate the case) but not--whatever this is.  "Dude, dreams are...yeah."  
"How long?"
"Months." Cas hands still for a split-second.  "Not all the time, but since I found out about the team leaders--it's been on the roster, yeah."  Strangely, not an improvement from torture dreams, either.  "Cas?"
"Why didn't you tell me before--" Then, proving Cas has in fact grown as a person, he adds, "Yes, that might have felt rather awkward for you."
"'Honey, I'm dreaming of a thousand ways you die by bullet, wanna have sex?'" Dean says deliberately.  "That's a serial killer's pick up line after they already have you in their goddamn dungeon-basement tied to a meat grinder or thresher or something, come on!"
"It's not as if you were dreaming of having sex with my bullet-ridden corpse," he says dismissively, to highlight where he seems to be having issues when it comes to the scale of 'normal'.  Worse, Dean can see his point, which tells him nothing he wants to know about himself, thanks.  "You said you were having those dreams before we came to Ichabod?  And our first night here?  Literally, you dreamed of--"
"You dying by mob on the asphalt of Ichabod, and no, I didn't fuck your corpse."
"And the knife? When did that start?"
"After Volunteer Services." Then he thinks about it. "Before, sometimes when I'd wake up, I'd feel like something should be there and wasn't, but it'd go away. Now, it's the opposite." He braces himself.  "Look, I think I'm--"
"When was the last time you felt it?" Cas asks, getting that look on his face.  That look, the one that means Cas is thinking and fuck knows.
"A few minutes ago, on the balcony," he answers impatiently; Cas can do his thinking thing later. "Look, I gotta--"
"And it went away on its own?"
"No, I heard you yell for me and it stopped."
Cas frowns.  "You heard me call for you?"
"Dude," he answers without thinking. "You cut right through the--"  His tongue almost loses it, but the momentum of a sentence pushes it through, "--screaming."
Cas sits back.  "Screaming," he says softly, almost to himself. "Of course: 'Can you hear it?'  What else would it be?"
Screaming; that's what he's been hearing.  Everyone that he tortured in Hell; of course that's it, of course it is.  What else would it be?
"I should have asked for more details regarding how the game of 'telephone' works," Cas continues, resuming the massage before catching Dean's eye.  "That's how the changes in the geas as it spreads was described to me."
"What?"
"The geas," Cas answers casually, and Dean's suddenly aware the cramps in his hand are gone and also, what the hell?  "Dean?"
"I...." Telephone.  "You think this is about the geas?"
"Obviously."
Obviously. "It can't be.  This has been happening all the time since...." Wait.
"Volunteer Services?" He nods blankly.  "That fits."
"How does it--"
"This afternoon, before I spoke to Alicia, I went to see Dolores regarding the other three catalyzed survivors from Volunteer Services.  She let me observe Bushmaster, and she told me they kept asking one question--"
"'Can you hear it?'"  He starts to ask why Cas didn't tell him before now, then realizes the obvious answer is 'when?', which hey, would be now.  "Why?"
"In the interrogation room, Micah was acting--oddly--after you visited him.  He was saying the same thing." Yeah, now that Cas mentioned it, he does remember something like that.  "Why did you have them turn the cameras off?"
"In case I needed to beat him up," Dean answers distractedly; what happened in that room?  The way Micah was looking at him....  "What do you think?  In case he said anything about Alicia.  He was careful before--no idea why--but I couldn't risk it. What does that have to do--"
"Of course he was careful," Cas says with a snort.  "Casting suspicion on her was to try and get her to see him, but he assumed--for some inexplicable reason--that if he accused her outright, you'd believe him without question and kill her out of hand.  That would have spoiled his plan, such as it was."
Not that inexplicable.  Might have worked with the other Dean, too.  "Okay, back to Micah and going to the infirmary after: why'd you think they were connected?"
"Micah's behavior made me curious, especially in light of Remington's suicide.  In theory, he could have picked up the geas from anyone, but he only started exhibiting that behavior after you visited him.  As it turns out, the four catalyzed survivors from Volunteer Services acted oddly as well when they finally woke up."
Dean licks his lips.  "How are they doing?  The other three?"
Cas hesitates.  "Currently, Dolores is administering increasing doses of thorazine to keep them from injuring themselves or others, but--"
"If they can remember what I did to them? Not a surprise."
"Dean, you can't actually kill someone with a hallucination, no matter what you may think.  Barring heart failure or a stroke, of course--"
"I didn't kill them."  Cas frowns, and Dean adds deliberately, "Like I didn't kill Grant."
Cas finishes off at his wrist, shifting to stroke up the palm to each finger, searching for tension, before lowering Dean's hand.  He doesn't let go, though, thumb stroking absently against the center of Dean's palm.
"They wouldn't have survived it," he adds in the spirit of getting it out there.  "If it'd been real.  On earth, anyway."  In the Pit, he'd just have been getting started.  "It was me.  Not the geas--it was me."
"It was you," Cas agrees.  "Just as it was me in the mess, just as it was them in Volunteer Services with you, just as it has been for everyone who was catalyzed and survived.  I may find you unique and a wonder to behold, but the geas is far more egalitarian.  It doesn't care you're Dean Winchester; it only cares what it can do with the material that is you, and what part it can exploit most easily.  Just like everyone else."
Searching Cas face, all he gets is vague annoyance.  "You're saying--" He hears his voice break but can't really care right now. "You're saying I'm not that special."
"Exactly.  The geas cannot work with anything that is not already there in the human mind; all it can do is activate and emphasize one tiny part to the detriment of the rest," Cas says.  "The geas is playing telephone when it spreads; the iteration that those from Volunteer Services and Micah had, I suspect, is the same as the one you have now."
"But I broke it!"
"You did," Cas says.  "Those four did as well, probably from sheer shock they were alive and not horribly mutilated."
"Thanks, Cas."
"You're welcome," he answers, innocent of irony.  "But everyone else--both those still inside the room and those you sent outside--were still affected until we dropped the number below threshold.  We were in the room long enough for you to contract it again from them or any of us, thus beginning a new iteration of telephone, and to pass it to whoever at that moment did not have their own version of the geas already.  Or who had just had theirs broken.  Fortunately, we removed you before threshold was reached and Naresh released you to Chitaqua before anyone else could be infected--"
"How can you be sure of that?"  Right. "No other crazy people asking if anyone else can hear it."  Cas nods, and Dean goes over the timeline; yeah, that makes sense. "Okay, so I'm the source of this version; what does that mean?  Why are they going crazy?"
"The answer to a question we didn't know we could even ask," Cas answers, looking so weirdly pleased that Dean's almost happy about becoming a proto-demon on earth, oh God, what?  "How stupid of me: it's not random."
"What's not random?"
"The geas," he answers. "It's not random, those fears do have something in common; it's selecting the most recent strong expression of fear--as in the most recent you remember--and using that."
"You mean whatever might have scared you last?" Holy shit, that makes sense.  "Literally that could be anything, even a guy walking up behind you and making you jump?"
"Or even the last thing you worried about before contracting the geas, provided you were very, very worried.  That's why it works even with incredibly inane fears that it shouldn't be able to exploit; it's using your own memory to provide your brain context and to build realistic hallucinations as needed.  The last thing you were afraid of before you touched the first map--"  
"--was you being shot."  Yeah, that makes sense.  "This version...."
The original geas said 'be afraid of this; run'.  The geas was designed for human fear, though; it wasn't meant to cover what the rack did.  The human mind didn't even have context for it where pain was probably the smallest part; if the geas carried even a little of that....  
"That's all you can hear in Hell: screaming," Dean breathes.  "You can't run away; no matter where you go or how fast you run, you're always right there." Cas nods.  "That's why she went for the thorazine; that's an anti-psychotic.  It's not the geas that's making them crazy; it's what I--"
"It's the geas," Cas says quietly.  "Exploiting that tiny part, as its instructions told it to.  The creators--as is their wont--didn't consider what adding in the memories and fears of someone who'd actually been to Hell would do, much less what exposing humans on earth to--that...."
"Torture by Alistair's apprentice," Dean says.  "Just say it. I was there; I remember." 
"That," Cas says firmly.  "Normally I'd admit this isn't something that the creators could have foreseen, but they foresaw literally nothing, so they don't get the benefit of the doubt."
"I'm hearing screaming, I feel that goddamn knife...it's happening to me, too.  Just slower.  Except what I'm afraid of--"
"--is becoming a demon, yes, that much was obvious," Cas interrupts.  "It's a hallucination. It's not real--"
"If I can't tell the difference, does it matter?"
Cas regards him seriously for way too long, then nods, like he just came to life-changing decision.  "If you can't tell the difference, ask me."
The frantic hamster-wheel that passes for thought in Dean's head grinds to an abrupt halt.  "What?"
"Ask me," Cas answers like that's supposed to make sense, adding, "It's not as if I'll lie to you."
There is so much wrong with that he has to work on where to even start. "And if you say it's real?  Hallucination you or real you, I mean, what about that?  How will I know?"
"If you're not soaking wet from holy water and covered in rock salt when I say it, you can take as a given it's not really me. Unless you're standing in a devil's trap, of course.  Check for that."
Of course.  "Simple.  I guess."
"But not easy, I know."
"What's going to happen to them?" Dean asks before the silence can stretch too long.  "The ones from Volunteer Services.  Are they...." He's not sure what goes there.
"After observing them, I recommended that we place them in an artificial coma.  Dolores agreed."
Not what he expected.  "What do you think that'll do?"
"At minimum, it will keep them from hurting themselves, which has become something of a difficulty, as they're becoming resistant to thorazine--or rather, the geas is adapting to resist it," Cas answers. "Now that I have a better idea of what they are experiencing, it may also help preserve their sanity.  The subconscious brain handles dissonance extremely well; dreams can do anything, after all."
"Dreams of being in Hell." He knows all about that.  "Oh yeah, that's better."
"In this case, that's true; you're the proof." Dean wants to argue that, but relatively speaking (to needing thorazine) that's true.  "Hypnotics also cause amnesia; whatever happens, they probably won't remember it."
"Yeah," Dean says, hoping his voice isn't too rough: probably.  "When is it happening?"
"Dawn, but with everything that happened today....." He makes a face.  "I asked Dolores to inform me so I could be there and left the front desk with orders to inform me immediately if she sends word.  To help Chess move the patients."
Yeah, that's why Cas wants to be there: muscle.  (Though yeah, that, too.)  "I'll--"
"If your next words are 'go with you', no." He stiffens, but Cas just raises an eyebrow to show how unimpressed he is.  "This is not merely a request from your second in command; it is an ultimatum from your partner.  You may choose which one you're offering your acquiescence, but you will not be there."
"Cas--"
"It's not your fault."  Dean looks away. "Dean, I can't stop you from making yourself miserable, but I can make it difficult enough that you'll have to expend an extraordinary amount of effort to manage it and therefore be far too tired to do it very effectively."
He can't exactly work out what that means, but a yawn brings the conversation to a halt.  Cas's mouth twitches, and Dean doesn’t bother fighting it; he's goddamn tired. "Fine, whatever, you ready to sleep?"
"Yes," Cas answers, blowing out the candle and reaching to turn off the lamp as Dean double-checks the curtain is still open enough for a view of outside.  
Abruptly, the bed shifts and Dean's sinking into the mattress under the weight of Cas, who stares at him thoughtfully from three inches away.  Not that he objects or anything, but--  "What?"
"Human Behavior 101," says Cas seriously, bracing an elbow beside Dean's head.  "I have a question."
"Shoot," he says (maybe not even metaphorically).
"Even when you're stupid beyond words--"
"Hey," he interrupts because he's kind of got to.
"--I find it both maddening and charming."  The blue gaze sharpens, like he can still see Dean's soul, like there's something there worth seeing.  Like-- "Why is that, pray tell?"
He licks dry lips.  "Dude, you're crazy."
"Of course."  Cas cups his face, callused fingers curving to fit the angle of his cheek, his jaw, then leans close enough that Dean can feel him breathe.  "You like that about me."
@@@@@@
--Day 158, continued--

Castiel paces the endless length of a room that continues forever, the clean white walls studded with doors at precise intervals.  Some are open, some ajar, some merely cracked, spilling memories like waking dreams before him, moments out of time or context.  The older doors are closed, the oldest ones locked. He pauses, fingers ghosting over the complicated whirls that surround one door, frame built from ancient olive and balsam and citrus wood, extinct for millennia, sealed with seven locks stretching from top to base.
"Copper," he murmurs, identifying each one. "Tin. Iron. Lead. Gold. Silver. Quicksilver."  There's neither latch nor knob on the door, nor keyholes in the locks; this door once closed was never meant to be opened again.  Pressing his palm to the smooth frame, he breathes a single word: "Cassiel."
The door shivers, locks trembling with a discordant metal jangle, and he breathes air scented with myrrh and ancient flowers in first bloom as they burn to ash beneath a blackened sky--
"No." He jerks back, tasting burning ash.  "I think it's best you remain there and I here."
Turning away, he continues down the room, watching doors pass: some old, some new, some barely formed, some so ancient the wood that formed them died out when humanity still floated in primordial seas.
He passes the Grove, a black haired boy cradling the body of a dead man as the shouting masses reached him.  A glimpse of black skirts draws him to a starkly elegant work room, walls pigeonholed for books, washed in the stillness of grief: Diana granted his request, Cornelia Africana.  It will be done. A fragile blonde girl rocks on the floor in terrible pain as white-clad maids circle her helplessly.  An elderly soldier rides three days and three nights to bring the news to Misenum, his own loss disciplined to another's need.
Diana in her temple, expressionless: You have no right to question us, Cornelia Africana.  We do not answer to you.
A god's promise was only as good as their desire to keep it, and they didn't care.  It was just a game to them, only one of hundreds, thousands, played by the gods with mortals as their pieces.  He bore witness to all of humanity's history; this was neither the greatest or the least of them played with human souls and human lives.  
He glimpses Cornelia in her tabilium with her books, turning one of the most powerful minds this planet has ever seen to a single purpose: this is my offering.  He fights the urge to enter and stop her, warn her, but it's just a memory; his chance to intervene passed millennia ago.

If you can, you should.

He pauses at the sight of a spill of light from a half-opened door.  Easing it open, he's witness to the silent tableau of Cornelia Africana, Sempronia Graccha, Emet, and Sappho surrounding the narrow cot where Claudia Pulchera struggles for each breath. The dark eyes are sunken into darkness, bones in stark relief, and the rise and fall of her chest barely moves the thin sheet covering her. 
"It will not be long, Domina," Emet says quietly, then his head turns, seeing Castiel.  The faint widening of the dark brown eyes is the only sign of his perception; Egypt's priestly caste are very well-trained.
"Be not afraid, Emet of Memphis," he tells him, pausing the flow of time in this location.
Emet steps away from the cot to gracefully lower himself into one of the hundred prostrations that an Egyptian priest learns as a matter of course.  Castiel examines him, satisfied at what he finds: Amon-Ra's divine spark is present, of course, but the touch of Hippocrates is there as well, given only to one who has far surpassed the requirements of his calling.
"I am called to judgment," Emet says into the mosaic floor.  "I am ready, Balance of the World; my life will pay in full for the harm I have done.  I only ask to be permitted to see Claudia through her passage and her mother and sister to their beds."
"Rise, Emet; we are but a servant, as you are."  He waits for Emet to gain his feet again.  "I am not here for you."
The change is subtle, but the movement is not;  Emet inserts himself between Castiel and the bed and women beside it.  Mortal behavior is often baffling, but this is not; the light of Hippocrates grows stronger, gleaming with the verdant greens of life woven into the birthright power of a priest of Egypt, fiercely protective.  "None here deserve such attention, Messenger."
Interesting.  "It is our natural right.  Do you think you can stop us?"
"I do not," Emet answers steadily.  "But I shall try anyway."
He would, at that.  "Claudia Pulchera will not take Charon's coin."  
Emet nods warily. "She refused."
"The Shores are infinite and the numbers that crowd them vast; she could search until she forgets herself as well as who she seeks," he tells Emet.  "I will escort her to him."
Emet's expression is fascinating; as a rule, the priestly caste aren't demonstrative.  "You--you--will accompany Claudia to the Underworld?"
"I doubt they'll refuse me admission," he answers, wondering if perhaps Emet's education was lacking after all.
"I doubt you would be denied anything you might want," Emet answers.  "I merely wonder why the Weight and the Balance would accept a task so...common.  Or that such a task would even exist."
He finds himself looking at Claudia, the rasp of her breathing echoing through the room.  "We are the Host on Earth," he says.  "All of Creation is our demesne.  It is our will, and it will be done."  
Emet blinks, wariness inexplicably draining away, and he bows his head. "Whatever assistance you require, I offer it, and myself as instrument of your will."
Stepping back, startled, he watches Emet accept the presence of a Messenger within him before returning to Claudia's bedside.  There was no need to take a temporary vessel while she died.  But she was afraid and in pain as her body began to shut down, despite the syrup of poppies.  He took away her pain and cleared her mind enough to speak to her mother and her sister, so she could give them comfort in their pain as she completed her time on earth.
He doesn't need to see the rest, but he can't look away: Cornelia Africana closes Claudia's eyes and Sempronia Graccha smooths back the dull, grey-shot black hair with an unsteady hand before turning to the comfort of her mother's arms.  On the bedside table lies Charon's coin, rejected, and the pain of grief is augmented by the knowledge of the horror of what they send her to.
"She won't be alone," Castiel whispers.  He gathered Claudia to him and passed the Guardian of the Underworld unopposed and unquestioned; he took her to her husband, who all this time clung to enough of himself to welcome her, her brother and sister with him.
It wouldn't last, of course; the Shores would take them, slowly and painfully, piece by piece, until they were no more than forgotten memories of themselves, truly shades.  Yet her joy and Tiberius's was far greater in their union here than that of any shade on Charon's Barge on their way to paradise.  When he left the Underworld, he left the four of them with one thing: their names, written into their shades for all of time.  All else may be lost, but they would know themselves and each other; that much, they would always keep.
"I did not know that Messengers were kind." 
Turning, Castiel sees the face that could have launched a thousand (Roman) ships.  "We aren't."  Kindness is so small; Enochian has no concept of it at all.  
"A lie, Messenger: it is vast. It is everything."  She follows his gaze to the darkened room. "You didn't remember?"
He shakes his head.  "Some of it, not all.  Not until now."
"You came to me in my bath," she says, eyes distant.  "You took my knife and held me in your arms in the cooling water and let me feel you and know I was not alone.  You spoke to me; you didn't reproach me for my weakness, but told me that Gaius waited for me on the Shores, and that you would take me to him when my time was done."
"Why is it, that we blame the reed for breaking when the weight placed upon it was purpose-made to be too great to bear?" he asks bitterly.  "Blame those that chose to make a weight that you could not carry; the responsibility is theirs, and so is the blame. What was done to you was obscene."
"Opimius--"
"And your father." Her childhood had been a travesty; malicious neglect at best, at worst, the cruel, calculated destruction of a young girl's fragile mind.  She was sold to the highest--and most august--bidder, her value was only in what benefits she brought her birth family at her marriage.  "I shared your life entire, Licinia Crassa; there was no flaw in you."
She smiles faintly.  "I remember...you said that, too.  Like you, I have forgotten much."
The bleakness of the Shores unfolds around them, and Castiel stills; the lifeless dirt and dry, empty air are antithetical to all that he was as an angel, and he can feel it still.  Worse, however, are the ragged, indistinct grey shapes that surround them like barely-solid mist.  He fights the unexpected desire to reach for them, to offer comfort and support; as an angel, his purpose was war, to administer justice in his Father's name and embody His wrath, never His succor.  If you can, you should.
"Why am I here?" he asks, hands clenched at his sides as a shade drifts by, hopeless, helpless, alone.
"I didn't think you would hear me," she answers.  "Not here."
He jerks around.  "You prayed to me?"  For the first time, he notices the loose blonde hair that ruffles in an invisible wind, the white dress that shifts with every movement, the pale feet, the vivid pink of cheeks and lips, the blue depths of her eyes; even at death, shades are rarely so vivid.
"I forgot so much," she answers, touching her chest, and something gleams silver-gold under her fingers, bright: her name, written into her shade.  "But I never forgot myself.  You gave me that.  I wanted to thank you."
He looks around the Shores, trying not to flinch as an oblivious shade wanders too close.  To doom someone here and deny them even the relief of madness....  "Do you call that kindness?"
"I do," she answers.  "It was a gift, its value beyond measure.  I wanted to tell you that, and that I used it as such a gift should be used."
He thinks of those locked doors.  "Some things should be beyond memory."
"Don't be afraid, Castiel of Chitaqua," she says, a smile in her voice.  "You've been many and now are one, but that one is a multitude.  You were, are, will be a thousand people before you're done."
The shades are now profound; truly, he lives in a time of absurd miracles.  "That sounds familiar."
"Practice what you preach, Messenger."  Her lips tighten, smile fading.  "Even here, time is short and I cannot stay long--"
"I would say I was surprised you can do it at all," he says. "But I'm not, or at least, less than I should be.  It's not just a side effect of the backlash caused by the collapse of the warding around Kansas.  The Door has been unguarded since the murder of Cerberus."
"That is not all."
Of course it's not. "The Misborn are the natural heirs of Cerberus." She nods, shoulders slumping, and he wonders briefly how he could have overlooked this possibility; it's the worst possible, so it's inevitable that it would happen.  "That's how they pass between the living world and the dead without the Morningstar's assistance.  Cerberus didn't have time to designate an alternate heir, as Charon did." 
"Until now, it didn't matter; the living world has no more appeal than those of the dead.  Living or dead, prey born mortal are of equal weight; their hunger cannot be satisfied by either."
"What changed?"
"Something in the mortal world makes them hungry," she says slowly, forehead creasing in thought. "Something they can eat."
There are so many possibilities, all of them equally terrible.  "I don't suppose we'd be fortunate enough for it to be me?"
"I know not," she answers.  "Castiel--"
"Not that it matters," he continues brittlely, thinking of Lucifer; he bred monsters of gods and never thought what that meant.  Even if he had known, he doubts Lucifer would have cared.  "If they can hunt the mortal world with impunity--"
"They won't," she interrupts. "They can claim the Door, yes, but that does not mean we will let them."
"'We'?"  Castiel looks at the masses of shades surrounding them, their despair and fear and pain endless, terrible to behold.  As an angel, he could have helped them: if he'd thought of it, if he'd cared, if he'd even seen them.  As an angel, he saw this and did nothing.  If he were an angel now...but he's not.  "And would this be your army?"  
"There are worse things than pain." Licinia stiffens as her eyes fix on the River, and Castiel follows her gaze.  "There's forgetting why you endure it."
Before his eyes, the River changes, calm robin's-egg blue and spring green swirling through it until it's the color of a calm summer sky, inviting.  As one, the massed shades rush toward it, throwing themselves onto the muddy banks and thrusting hands, mouths, and even their heads beneath the tranquil surface, drinking deeply.
"Lethe," he whispers as one of the shapes staggers upright and turns toward them.  The pale suggestion of a face is reduced to little more than a hazy blank oval set with dimly sketched eyes that seem to look through him; nothing exists behind them, nothing at all.  "They take--"
"Your pain," she says tonelessly.  "Your fear.  Your anger.  Your grief.  All you must do is offer it yourself, whole and entire."
He swallows back bile as more crowd forward.  Licinia gazes at the water lapping only inches from their feet, blue eyes dark.
"It is hard," she whispers. "To see it within reach of my arm, to know there my pain can be left.  All I must do is drink."
He glances at her; the longing is as sharp as pain.
"My husband was betrayed and murdered, his body butchered, his shade condemned to wander the Shores, and I was driven mad," she whispers.  "I see what they did to him, night and day; I see them cut off his head and gouge out his eyes and cut out his tongue.  I see them open his skull and fill it with gold to claim the reward offered to the man who brought Opimius his head."  She looks up at him blindly.  "Sometimes, it's all that I can see."
"But you don't take the waters."
"Lethe will take my pain, but for their condescension, my offering must be all else," she answers as she looks at the water again, hands fisting at her sides.  "Licinia of the Crassii, made happy wife of the last of the Gracchi sons, mother of Sempronia, sister of Sempronia and Claudia, and daughter of Africana.  I must give up the man who believed I had no flaw, the daughter I bore to him in our marriage bed, the sisters who were my greatest comfort, and the woman who welcomed me as a loving mother,." She swallows.  "And I must give up the woman I could have been in life, had I been strong enough to claim her."
The choice is breathtaking in its cruelty; it's one they're forced to make every single day, until they forget there's a choice at all.  Hell would approve.
"I will give Lethe nothing," Licinia breathes, jerking her gaze from the waters and looking up at him.  "So here I stand and here I remain; I refuse their offer.  I reject it."
The sight of Lethe is almost lost behind the shades crowding the banks, kneeling in the churned mud, their agony vanishing with every desperate gulp of water.  He thinks of Dean and Bobby, of Andy and Gary, of Kellie and Ray, Alicia dying in that field, of needles and smoke and pills and the thousand ways he learned to forget.  "I don't think I could."
"Do you not?" The blue eyes meet his, and he finds himself thinking of the flicker of a match when it catches, the tiny gleam of endless blue, heat and potential on the brink of realization.  "The water is before us, yet here you remain."  
She smiles, and he understands why Gaius loved her, why Cornelia mourned her so bitterly.  She brought such joy to her new family, joy that had been long absent with Tiberius's terrible death, Scipio's betrayal, the reveal of Sempronia's suffering: joy that was so desperately needed.  Her fragility made her all the more precious, and as much as her sons, Licinia's death left a scar on Cornelia's heart that never quite healed.  
Licinia has existed on the Shores over eighty times longer than the length of her mortal life, cast here with the sum of all she was to the moment of her death, but nothing more.  Potential unrealized--the incalculable possibilities of would and could and should--was lost forever, like the last light of a dead star.  It is from the tiny sum of that short mortal life--a drop in infinity--that the Shores take, and take, and take, until nothing remains.  Yet looking at her, he doesn't sense any loss. In fact, he would almost say that there was--
"It's hard," she says, reaching out a hand and pulling a shade to her side.  Not formless, however; deep brown eyes, half-hidden behind the glossy masses of  black hair, look at him shyly, olive skin flushing rose.  "But it's easier when you're not alone."
"Claudia." The pinkening lips part in a surprised smile, and the hideousness of her slow death, the pain and fear, are almost submerged beneath the young woman before him, bright and eager.
"That's not how I remember it," she says softly.  "You held my hand; you took my pain and fear; you gave me those last hours with those I loved most to give them comfort before I passed.  When my time was done, you took me to my sister, my husband, and my brother, so that we might be together for all time." Her expression hardens.  "It is that which Lethe wishes to take; they will not have it.  I give Lethe nothing.  So here I stand, and here I remain."
"I was beaten to death on the Capitol during tribal assembly.  The mob was incited by my fellow Senators who feared the loss of their power," a deeper voice says, and she glances up with a shy smile at Tiberius Sempronius Gracchus as he rests a hand on her shoulder.  "I died in the service of the People of Rome; I would do it again without regret.  The waters of Lethe may not have it.  I refuse their offer."
"In the Grove of the Furies, I was murdered by a mob led by my enemies in the Senate," a familiar voice says as a man steps to Licinia's side.  "Like my brother before me, I gave my service to the People and to Rome.  I died for them and I did it gladly; there is nothing I would change."  He slides his fingers through Licinia's.  "I reject Lethe's waters; they're a lie. It's hard, yes, but we're never alone." Gaius Sempronius Gracchus smiles at him.  "Thank you, Castiel."
He's surprised by his own smile, something bubbling up from somewhere deep that feels bafflingly like hope.  "It is good to see you, Gaius Sempronius."  Gaius tips his head, eyebrows raised, and Castiel fights the inexplicable urge to laugh.  "Yes, of course, I almost forgot; I did as you asked."
Gaius nods seriously.  "And?"
You said the worst of you was not all you were, that they could be the best, and I would meet better than you.
I Fell for them, and they feared me. I trained them, and they hated me.  They stalked me through the camp for the length of a day and when full night fell, they tried to kill me.  I'm angry--no, I'm pissed.  I've been pissed for two years, I'm not over it, and for a very long time, I didn't want to be, and humanity could fuck itself with my questionable blessing.  It didn't matter what I did; Dean would die and so would I, we would lose, and the world would end.  Even knowing that, I knew I would make the same choice again, I would Fall and survive, forced to live this miserable life, and that pissed me off most of all.  You might say I didn't take it well, but I'd like to see anyone else do better.
Then I met this Dean and he met me; then Dean died but I did not, because I had to save this Dean's life; then the world didn't end and we didn’t lose, or at least, not yet.  Between then and now, he tried to die as stupidly as possible before my very eyes, asked me to shoot him in the head, taught me to play poker when we both realized we hated chess, and while I'm still angry--pissed, so very, very pissed--I keep forgetting that and no longer even want to be. I never regretted what I did, but now I'm grateful--grateful of all impossible things--that I survived, that I lived, and far, far worse, if I could do all of it again, I would change nothing.  He's my best friend and my commander and my lover, and while I would always have died and killed for him, now I find I want to live for him, too.
Memories of Erica's expression when he trained her, Luke's on every mission, the fear and revulsion and horror of the camp those first hideous days after he emerged from his cabin alive but mortal intrude, garish in their intensity.  More follow eagerly: the horrific day he watched his own death for the endless hours until nightfall, the sound of gunfire that never seemed to end,, grief and rage changing Dean into someone he barely recognized, the dull, bitter, hopeless years that followed.  That was then, but now there's more: the nuns he didn't know existed and didn't save, that died horribly in that church; the betrayals of his body that he could neither control nor correct; Andy, forced to die twice before their eyes; Gary's cooling body in that hall in the basement and Mark barely clinging to life; and the discovery of Alicia's betrayal, a wound he somehow failed to expect despite a mortal lifetime learning from humans to expect nothing else.
Lethe is so close; they run only inches from his toes.
"No," Licinia says urgently, and a warm hand takes his.  "That's not all; that's their lie. That's not even most of it; there's more."
There's Vera, falling asleep in the protective curve of his body every night for weeks because she knew he wouldn't sleep, that he'd keep her safe; caustic commentary at odds with gentle hands and bone-deep worry as she re-learned her profession and discovered her own avocation on his body; her laugh, easy and affectionate and trusting, the first time he took her to his bed.  There's Jeremy, who looked at him like a savior when Vera took Castiel to pick him up outside of Chitaqua; waiting impatiently on the training field after dusk to be reviewed on his skills and to talk about his strange adolescent problems that were like glimpses into an entirely different world; wandering into Castiel's cabin at any hour, unthinking confidence in his safety and welcome no matter Castiel's mood that day; shaking in Castiel's arms after he and Joelle escaped that demon outside Ichabod, leaning into him for the comfort he'd somehow known Castiel would give.
There's Amanda, the student he didn't know to even dream of given flesh, who could learn anything he could teach and pass it to others; facing him on the training field, never understanding she was supposed to be afraid; lighting up moments before they went to battle, one of the few who can fight beside him and fewer that want to; in Dean's room, turning to him for comfort as the only one who understood her loss.  There's Alison, sitting on her porch the night after their first disastrous meeting and a terrible party, hostile and tired and unimpressed by the infinite being seated beside her; the wonder on her face when he showed her herself; offering up her mind for his use without hesitation to save those children, unshakably certain she could survive it, that he could protect her when she couldn't hope to protect herself; deep in their discussions on the anatomy of sheepapodes and the horrified debate between whether propagation involved eggs or live birth  (separately or in combination, with or without water, and/or the involvement of a pouch); a woman who fears neither angels nor gods nor man, only herself.
Joseph and his obscure Yiddish jokes, love of historical mockery, sangfroid no matter the circumstances, and a bond with Dean he doubts either man expected, much less guess its still-growing strength; Mel's practicality in the face of insane plans and gifts of weed when he ran out; Sarah standing over him holding a blood and sulfur stained rifle after climbing down the wall when the gate wasn't opened fast enough and she couldn't wait; the feel of Jaya, warm and heavy in his arms, and Sudha's hopeful claim of the right to call him family; Teresa and Manuel and Tony and Njoya offering friendship and trust; Haruhi's and Derek's easy companionship; Rosario and her determination and uncertainty and the untapped potential within her that he wants very much to watch her fulfill.
And there's Alicia.
A flash of her outside his cabin is replaced by her dancing with her knives for him in a blur of euphoria and controlled violence, without flaw; enthusiastically straddling him in his bed still bloody from a mission and only pausing long enough to strip off her muddy jeans; at his stove making Chitaqua toast and gossiping over coffee at the kitchen table; slumped in the infirmary breakroom wallowing in her own guilt; facing Erica and Micah and all her own mistakes and fears to save people who destroyed themselves; I was going to survive. And prove it. That I was sorry.; asking him not to hate her before taking her last breath surrounded in bloody snow after refusing Erica's offer of her life.  
It wasn't because she didn't want to live.
Everyone may have a price, but that doesn't mean that everyone can be bought, he told Dean, and while he knew that was true of Alicia, until yesterday, he didn't know why.  Alicia is not and will never be for sale, not for any price in Creation; two years ago, she sold herself to Erica for safety, and at her order, picked up a gun to take two lives.  Her guilt could have destroyed her, and in a way, he supposes it did; Alicia is the person she built from what remained, and he can't say she didn't do well.  A hunter who chose to devote her life to saving others; the only mortal who feels the blade as he does, that he could teach the most personal of his skills; the mole in Erica's team that protected Joseph when he went to the border; the woman who chose to follow the very people who had injured her to Ichabod's outskirts and try to save them, to confront the woman who had betrayed, broken, and tried to destroy her; if I'm supposed to pass judgment on whether they deserve it first, consider this a blanket statement for everyone, forever: they deserve to be saved.  Alicia can't be bought: what she lost, she fought to take back; what she became, she fought to create; what she is, she cannot, will not give up for any price. He doubts that now, she even knows how.
Alicia still thinks forgiveness is something that must be earned, paid with pain in full measure, and not simply given: he can't blame her. Until now, he's not sure he realized it himself.
Lethe may flow bearing poisoned temptation as they will, to his very feet if they feel so moved, but there is nothing, nothing they could offer to match what has no price.  "And here I remain," Castiel murmurs and sees Licinia smile.  Squeezing his fingers, she lets go. "I stand corrected," he tells her. " And yes, you were right as well," he tells Gaius. "About people.  Sometimes, they don't even realize how much better they've become."  Then, unable to stop himself, "I did meet better than you as well."
Gaius laughs.  "Really?"
"Very much.  Then again, I also think he is better than anything in Creation and may be the reason it exists--so he can be in it--so my objectivity may be questionable.  You would like him very much; you're alike in many ways."
"I would very much like to meet him," Gaius says, looking intrigued.
"He said the same of you." He finds his smile widening in response to Gaius's.  "Thank you."
Abruptly, he notices the growing number of shades lingering near them, ignoring the presence of Lethe only feet away.  The misty forms grow stronger as he watches, more intact, the smudges becoming faces with eyes that seem to be looking at him.  Others break from the rush toward the waters, joining the hovering shades and they, too, seem to grow more solid, more here.  Before he can wonder if perhaps he's imagining it--and for that matter, has somehow acquired an imagination--the nearest one meets his eyes and smiles.
He looks at Licinia. "What--"
"To answer your question," Licinia says, "this is my army.  Kindness is everything, Castiel of Chitaqua.  You gave us a gift, and we did with it as you would expect; we spread it to all who wanted it."
"You spread it--" He looks back at the smiling shade and sees it: a glint of silver, small but strong.  Searching the dozens of shades around, he sees them shining on each and every one.  When he looks at Licinia again, her smile widens.  "How could you…."
"I read what you wrote into me," she answers, touching her chest where he wrote her name. Five symbols surround it, the only protection he knew that no one but a human soul could ever claim, that the Underworld would be unable to break.  "I didn't understand it--I barely understood myself--but I couldn't stop trying.  I wrote these symbols in the dust of the Shores a thousand times, and each time, I felt understanding hover closer, just out of reach.  Then, one day--I was so tired, Castiel, and to Lethe I went, and knelt, and let the water fill my hands.  I looked at it, then at those around me, and finally, I understood: what those symbols meant was what Lethe wanted to take."
Five symbols, that make the base of every ward and protective spell in Creation, the creation of which marked the origin of humanity itself.  

The most accurate description would be the definition of self; in short, each person belonged first to themselves, discrete and separate from one another. The first claim a human made of ownership was to themselves, and thus, you became self-aware. My Father created you in his image, but that moment is when humanity created itself.

They can't be translated, of course: they aren't words; they're barely more an idea.  But if he tried, he might say they meant--
"I am." Her fingers trace over the five symbols, each lighting beneath her touch.  "That was what Lethe wanted in exchange for my pain; not just my joy, my memories, and my name, but an idea, my idea: the idea that I am me." She looks at him.  "Even with this, I'd almost forgotten.
"It wouldn't happen again; I would not let it," she continues. "Upon the Shores themselves, I knelt and wrote my name, and as quickly as they would erase it, I would write it again.  As did Gaius, and Claudia, and Tiberius when they understood what we had almost lost.  Then one day, when Lethe flowed and the shades gathered before it, one of them stopped and looked at what I wrote.  The next day, another did the same, and then another.  Though Lethe had stolen their names, they still had themselves, even here." She lifts a hand to indicate the gathered shades. "And upon the Shores themselves, they knelt with me and wrote it."
"'I am here'," the shade who smiled at him says, features resolving more firmly into a pretty face, skin darkening slowly to what he suspects was once--will be?--a deep brown, a suggestion of dark locks floating in the windless air.  Around her, the other shades draw closer: dozens of faces, dark and pale and every shade between, the ragged remains of their clothes showing dozens of the cultures that came under Roman rule.  "We are here," she adds, fierce pride rippling through her voice.  "And here we will remain."
"Not everyone understands yet," Licinia says as Lethe vanishes into churning grey water and the shades, glutted on their waters, start to drift away.  "But every day we all write it anew, and each time, more see it and begin to understand. Our work has only just begun, but it will be done. The Shores are ours; we certainly have the time."
The number of questions is already infinite and still grows, and the inconveniences of linear existence require he select only one at a time, which is impossible. Then, gazing at the shades gathered around her, he pauses, reviewing what she just said: The Shores are ours.  "The Shores are now claimed by Lucifer, called the Morningstar.  He will not cede them to you."
"The Morningstar may call himself Master of the Shores," Licinia answers.  "That does not make it true.  His claim violates natural law; the Shores are not his."
"The Shores are within the demesne of the Underworld and therefore the realm of the gods," he says in confusion; no one under the tutelage of Cornelia Africana would not know such a fundamental part of natural law. "The gods who once ruled are dead or have fled; there are none to challenge him for them on your behalf.  The Shores were unclaimed lands; his claim of them, while unwelcome, was just."
"The Shores were not unclaimed," she replies.  "They belong to us." 
He stares at her, at a loss for words.
"We are the shades of the Shores, exiled here for all eternity for lack of a coin to pay our passage on Charon's barge," Licinia continues. "The gods who claimed the Underworld have passed and none designated an heir; that does not mean the Underworld was the Morningstar's to claim.  We are here and here we remain; the Shores are ours. No challenge was offered or accepted, no battle was fought and won; the Morningstar trespasses on what is not his own and enforces his claim of possession with the Misborn.  His occupation of the Shores violates natural law; he must leave."
"And who taught you to so creatively interpret natural law?"
"Cornelia Africana, daughter of Africanus and Mother of the Gracchi," she answers.  "You cannot imagine that my mother would so neglect my education once I entered her house?"
Of course she did.  Castiel gazes at the featureless landscape, then at her.  "Even if you could claim the Shores, you would have no more authority over the Rivers than the Morningstar does now.  You still could not cross into Elysium or any other land of the dead."
"We don't want to cross." Licinia takes a deliberate step forward before looking down. "I thought, instead, we might plant a garden."
Following her gaze, his breath catches; where she was standing, thin blades of new spring grass poke through the lifeless dirt that before his eyes grows darker, richer.  A fragile stem pushes itself upward, tiny leaves unfurling before his disbelieving eyes; crouching, he reaches a shaking hand to touch one perfect leaf and feels the thrum of life: Creation.  "How…."
"The Shores are ours" Licinia states.  "And we will make them a Paradise.  It is not over yet."
Castiel's head snaps up.  "What?"
"He asked the question, and through all of time and space, we heard it," she answers.  "We did not understand it then: we hardly understood ourselves. Now, we understand, and unto you we render our answer: yes.  It's not over yet."
"Who asked the question?"
"The impossible," she says.  "And where I stand, here on the Shores, is where it shall begin."
"Why here?" he asks. "Why now?" 
"When nothing is written, all we have is now," she answers.  "So now is when it must be."
He watches another plant fight its way to the surface; the soil is poor (it's not actual soil), the environment hostile (this can't possibly qualify as air), it shouldn't be able to survive (or even exist) but perhaps no one informed it.  Even if they had, it has no reason to care.  If it could, it would.
"You said 'if'," Licinia says in a different voice.  "'If' we could claim the Shores.  Is there some reason for doubt?"
Even as an angel, he could not have helped them (he wouldn't have even considered the question), but now, as mortal as the shades were in life, he wants to try.  The shades want to claim a place that may soon not exist and fight the Misborn as if there's some possibility they might actually win.  Inches from his knee, a dark pink bud shyly peers from its green frame, tiny leaves unfurling for the first time all of Time: here, in this place that was created to be nothing.  He slides his fingers through the still-lifeless dirt and remembers watching that night with the rest of the Host as the first human claimed herself, I am, and with it, proved humanity's claim to all Creation.  
Five symbols, an idea: I am here.  Licinia drew them into the Shores themselves and now other shades do, too. "Do the Shores erase your name still?  Theirs?"
She frowns in confusion.  "Yes, but not as often, and never when we are by," she answers.  "Castiel--"
"You dispute Morningstar's claim to these lands?"
"You didn't answer--"
"You are making a formal petition to a Messenger to adjudicate a dispute between those born mortal and the divine," he interrupts, rising to his feet and facing her; if you can, you should.  "The formalities are the basis of invocation of natural law.  Licinia, daughter of Africana, your mother did not leave your education so wanting that you would not know this."
Licinia straightens, raising her chin proudly.  "Qafsiel Kaziel, Cassiel, Castiel, Messenger of the Pantheons, and the Host made manifest on earth," she recites, "he who is the balance and the karma, the scales and the weight, and that which weighs all things, with whatever rite, using whatever name, in whatever appearance it is right to invoke thee, we entreat thee to hear us."
He wishes Cornelia could see Licinia now.  "We will hear you, Licinia, daughter of Africana."
"The Shades of the Shores dispute the Morningstar's claim to be Master of the Shores," she answers. "The gods are dead or have fled, their claims to the Underworld made null, leaving no legitimate heir. The Morningstar's false claim is based on a faulty premise; the Shores are not unclaimed.  Our residence makes us the Shores' natural master; they are ours.  If the Morningstar wants them, it is from us that he must first take them."
They were here first: truly a classic.
"The Morningstar's claim to the Shores rests on it being unclaimed territory, belonging to none in the absence of the gods," he answers.  "Your residence here was established long before he first made his claim, and your right to make claim proved by the presence of your name written upon the Shores themselves.  Morningstar's claim to defacto ownership in the absence of legitimate claimants is therefore dissolved; his rule is by conquest alone and is therefore open to challenge."  Calling in a knife, Castiel cuts across his palm and crouches, turning his hand so the blood drips to pool in the lifeless dust and frames his next words carefully.  "We accept your challenge, and our decision is this: the Shores are now in dispute. Ownership will be decided by combat and to the victor goes the spoils in full until the end of Time."  Castiel makes the second cut, watching the blood well up and begin to pool in his palm. "Our judgment is thus rendered." he says, turning his hand and watching the blood begin to drip, pooling by that from the first cut.  "That is our will, and it shall be done."
The Underworld doesn't respond, though it certainly heard him and understood;  it is less than impressed by his authority, it seems.  He shouldn't be surprised; divinity in all its forms rarely deigns to answer to those born mortal.  And while he wasn't born thus, he is now most definitely mortal.
The long silence is abruptly broken as Gaius steps forward, hand resting on his shoulder, fingers startlingly warm and strong.  His voice is gentle as he says, "It doesn't matter, Castiel.  We do not expect this of you."
Of course not: humans have long been trained to keep their expectations low, to ask for what should be given, to beg for what are their natural rights.  They wrote their names into the Shores themselves and it still it pretends it has the right to defy them.  If he were still an angel, he would--
He can almost hear Dean's voice: it doesn't have the right to disobey you, so stop giving it ideas. 
"We are Castiel, once known as Cassiel, Qephetzial, and Qafsiel Kaziel, among our many names: called the Arbitrator, the Weight and the Balance, and the Balance of the World; we are the balance and the karma, the scales and the weight and that which weighs all things: and the last of the Host in Creation." The Underworld seems to compress itself, gathering like a great weight hanging just above them, waiting for only an excuse to crush all beneath.  "The petition has been heard and we have rendered our judgment, for now and all time, as is our right.  This is our will and it will be done."
Both pools vanish into the dead soil, leaving it as untouched as if they'd never been, and for an endless moment, there's a stillness unlike anything he's ever experienced.  The very air (such as it is) seems to be waiting, though for what, he can't imagine.
Gaius's hand tightens on his shoulder.  "What is happening?"
Abruptly, the weight vanishes, and the neat circle of grass surges outward, the featureless dirt vanishing in great gulps of verdant green, spreading beneath the feet of the startled shades like a carpet made of spring.  Licinia jumps as only inches away, a sapling pushes free of what looks like rich soil, tender and young, followed by another, then another.  The shades exclaim, shifting to look at blankets of clover and newborn bushes already bearing green berries that ripen to red before their eyes. 
"That," Castiel says in satisfaction.  Crouching, he watches the lone flower burst into bloom as a dozen more break through the grass around it, and reaches to touch the velvet-soft petals, breathing in air fragrant from blossoms that haven't existed on earth since before humanity was more than a thought in his Father's mind.  This day the Underworld, home and sometimes prison of souls born mortal, submitted to a mortal's demand for obedience, for no other reason than he told it to.  It's not raising the dead, of course, but then, he had Grace.  This time, he had nothing but himself.  Dean would very much approve.
The hem of a toga and a pair of blurry but recognizable military boots intrude on his vision, and he looks up, grinning helplessly at Gaius's expression. He knows that one and yes, it is very difficult to pick one question from among so many.  "What--what does this mean?" Gaius asks finally.
"It means war," Castiel says, rising to his feet. "I will not send you into battle unarmed, however," he continues, focusing on Licinia.  "Licinia, daughter of Africana, come here."
Enchanted, he watches flowers blossom wherever she steps before she drops gracefully to her knees, skirts pooling like quicksilver in a verdant frame.  She raises her head, and he swipes a finger through the blood on his palm and touches it to her forehead, breathing his blessing in his native tongue.  "Rise, Licinia of the Shores, and pick up your sword.  Your army awaits your command.  The battle begins when you step on the field."
"Me?  But--"  She stops short and looks down at her own hand closing over the gold and sapphire hilt of the sword nesting in the grass beside her, blade silver ice.  "Oh," she whispers, lifting it.  "Where did…."
"It came from you," he answers, extending his hand and helping her to her feet.  "You made it of yourself, just as you and the other shades created this Garden."
She shakes her head.  "I didn't--I don't understand."
The soul after death is the sum of its mortal life; all that was only potential is lost.  Even if it loses nothing of itself, it can never be more: static, unchanged and unchanging until the end of Time.  For all he questioned, that he never did, and looking at Licinia now, he can only wonder how he believed in such an impossible lie.  She isn't the sum of a mortal life; her mortal life is only a portion of what she is and will be, potential unrealized yet stretching to the limits of infinity itself.
"The woman you could have been in life is gone," he tells her, looking into the bewildered eyes the color of the ocean.  "She existed in your mortal life in potential, but she was too small, too much of the living world to be here. The woman before me now…her potential was born here, on the Shores themselves.  You created her over millennia from every piece of yourself you fought to keep, every day that you refused Lethe, and every shade that you saved, and you create her still.  The sword you hold now is you, the woman you were and are now and could be, forged in every battle you fought, in every victory and every loss in all your existence.  That is the woman who would dare challenge the Morningstar; it is only fit that you be the one to lead the battle."
Licinia nods slowly, eyes wet with unshed tears, and Castiel looks at the other shades, potential written in bright silver and growing before his eyes.  Of course Licinia could give it to others: an idea, I am.  That's what ideas do; they spread.
"For divine favor, there is always a price, and as petitioner, it is from you payment must be rendered," he says, fighting back a smile, and Licinia nods quickly, wiping her eyes, expression calm, betraying neither disappointment nor surprise; mortals have long accepted the capriciousness of their gods.  Their standards are very much due for a change.  "This is our will: when you step on the field, you will not doubt, you will not wonder, you will not fear, you will not despair; you will fight and you will win."
Licinia blinks, mouth dropping open, staring at him before she smiles.  "It will be done."
"I know." Castiel counts the people quickly and then remembers there's no time here; he has all he needs.  "Your army needs generals," he says, tugging her to his side.  "Gaius Sempronius Gracchus, come here."
Dean abruptly awakens to what feels like the entire world tipping over.  Sitting up, he draws a deep breath before shoving off the suddenly suffocating covers, breathing out in relief at the feel of chill air against his feet when they reach the floor.
Shaking himself, he gets up, making his way to the bathroom, aware of a vague sense of relief the bathroom is working again; there's nothing like latrines being dug that makes you realize you'll happily embrace the candle and cave lifestyle as long as indoor plumbing still exists.  Washing his hands, he stares blearily into the mirror, but honestly, if something not him is looking back, it's gonna have to wait; today's booked when it comes to horror or bullshit, thanks.
The cold floor is a lot less pleasant on the way back, and it's only the fact he doesn't want to wake Cas that he doesn't lunge for the bed, breathing out in relief as he snuggles beneath the body warm covers, breath catching when Cas curls closer, arm thrown with casual intimacy across his stomach as he tucks his face against Dean's neck with a faint snort of satisfaction.  Smiling helplessly, Dean tucks the masses of unruly hair more firmly beneath his chin and shuts his eyes.
Abruptly, the bed seems to drop from beneath them, but before he can fall, that earlier sense of pressure returns with interest, pinning him to a mattress that feels like solid stone beneath blankets as heavy as lead.  Even the air seems to be getting thicker, heavier, coating him in a warm cocoon that smells like fresh earth. 
This, he supposes, would be when he should start to panic, but the first adrenal spike is buried beneath an unending, unyielding calm; nothing is gonna get through that.  

She pauses just before completing the circle in the dry dirt behind the house, sitting back on her heels.


"What?" Dean asks, trying not to move; the circle is only just big enough for him to kneel, and he doesn't want to risk fucking it up.  "I’m ready." 


"You don't have to do this," she says abruptly, which is news to him.  "If I send another message to her now--"


"It'll take at least two weeks for her to get back." 


"A week at most. She'll finish quickly." 


"And that's a week too long," Dean argues.  "You said it yourself, every day it's getting stronger.  It has to be now." 


"But it doesn't have to be you." 


Oh.  "Yeah, it does," he answers.  "I understand the risk, even if it works." Maybe especially if it works.  "This is just to talk, nothing else.  I thought about this--"


"For five seconds after I finished explaining."  She cocks her head, incredulity crossing her face. "I assume the wait was to finish swallowing your tea." 


He can't help smiling at that.  "I came here to help," he says.  "Decision was made then.  This isn't on you, Constanza." 


She makes a face.  "You don't know a lot of witches, do you?" 


"Oh, I do," he answers, not really wanting to give context, which is generally 'shitty' at best.. "Just none like you.  This isn't on you." 


"Oh, that helps." Leaning forward, she cups his face, callused palm cradling his jaw as the clear eyes gaze into him like she can see straight down into his soul. Which as it turns out she sort of can, but she doesn't flinch, so he assumes nothing too creepy is looking back.  "The most important part--"


"Don't freak out, I get it," he assures her.  "It'll be fine, promise." 


She reluctantly laughs, patting his cheek before kneeling back.  "Twenty-three is always immortal." 


"Got me this far," he says, taking a quick, nervous breath.  "Okay, I'm ready." 


"You're not," she says, and Dean nods tightly. "But you're not special there.  No one is, even if you'd been training for this half your life." 


He watches as she picks up the knife before she looks at him, and he quickly extends his arm.  She makes a short cut mid-arm, just enough to blood both sides of the clean white blade. Turning the blade, she meets his eyes and all at once, the brown eyes change as the ground beneath him trembles. 


He swallows, aware of the sudden silence around them. Not quiet: silence, like sound doesn't even exist anymore, like the air's too solid for anything to move it. 


"You're afraid," she says dispassionately, and that--that is not Constanza. 


He doesn't bother trying to lie; that's actually really understating the case.  "Yeah." 


She nods like he said something really smart.  "Fear is weight without limit; it grows and shrinks as it wills. You must carry that weight, no matter how great, or be crushed beneath it."  Her gaze fixes on him, and it's like being pinned beneath a mountain.  "How much can you carry?"

In the warm cocoon of (bed, blankets, room), Dean's jerked awake like he just got a hit of speed straight to the vein; something's wrong and he's got to fix it, now.
A faint sound makes him look at Cas just as he sits up, gulping air like he's been drowning.  "Cas?" he says, sitting up and reaching for him, then stopping short when he realizes Cas is shaking.  "What--" Stupid question: this time, he knows exactly what's happening.  "In the drawer?"  
Without waiting for an answer, he vaults across the bed and kneels by the bedside table, pulling out the entire drawer and plucking out the bottle.  Shaking out a pill, he gets one of Cas's hands and places it in his palm, not sure if he's tracking but he should feel that, at least.  "Take it."
Cas swallows it dry before Dean remembers water might have helped.  Wrapping his arms around his upraised knees, Cas leans his forehead against them, shoulders hunched against an invisible blow.  Even from here, Dean can hear him deliberately slow his breathing, and after a few seconds, Dean recognizes a pattern.
Standing up, he tries to work out what he should do to help--get water, get Vera, declare war, something--then shakes himself; what Cas needs right now is a partner who can deal.  Circling the bed and crawling up on the mattress beside him, he looks at Cas helplessly, then sits carefully beside him, watching for Cas to flinch or move away, before--tentatively--resting a hand against the hunched back.  After a moment, he starts to rub slow, light circles, not sure if that does shit but at least lets Cas knows he's here.
It feels like hours before the hunched tension eases, the shaking slowing to a faint tremble before it's gone.  "Want to go outside?" he murmurs, and Cas shakes his head sharply. "You sure?  I can get the mattress out there, no problem."  
"I'm fine," he answers huskily, leaning against Dean with a sigh.  Wrapping an arm around Cas's shoulders, Dean eases them down onto the mattress, rolling onto his side to get Cas closer.  After who cares how long, Cas sighs again.  "The effects of benzodiazepines are to be lauded--even blessed--for their speed in dissipating symptoms, but it takes a moment to adjust.  It's simply…." There's a long pause.  "Embarrassing."
That is literally the last thing Dean expected to hear. "What?"
"It's ridiculous," he says resentfully against Dean's t-shirt.  "I understand better than any human the mechanisms that cause this reaction.  I can name all the neurotransmitters involved and the proportions of each within the context of this body.  I can even tell you why they caused the chain reaction leading to panic, but despite that, I still can't stop it.  I need artificial means to bring it to a halt.  My Brethren would be appalled at my lack of control over a corporeal form."
"Your asshole ex-Brothers wouldn't last a day actually living in a human body," Dean scoffs, and Cas lifts his head with a frown.  "You told me yourself, most of the normal shit's suppressed by Grace.  You think if they turned everything on, they'd even know what was going on, much less what to do about it?  Zachariah would shit his pants and only wonder what the hell that smell was and why his ass felt squishy!"
Cas's mouth twitches. "Squishy."
"Dude, half of them couldn't even control themselves in a human body just visiting without fucking it up while in there," Dean continues, ignoring 'squishy' because whatever, it's true.  "You get panic attacks; it's not a big deal." Wait, try that again.  "I mean, it's a big deal, yeah, but not--you know.  Not anything you're doing wrong here. You said you used to have them more often, before Vera helped you out."
"Yes," he answers reluctantly. "I took her advice and the number decreased. Which does make it ironic that despite the fact she was right about that, I still disbelieved her when she said it was rare that such things simply go away.  Even if I controlled for all variables, as it's impossible to control for variables I don't actually know exist or rather, don't exist yet." Dean can almost see his eyes narrow: yeah, knowing all things really doesn't cover as much as advertised.
"Like being in a town chock full of a geas that causes people to feel literal terror  of insert whatever the fuck works?" Cas looks up so Dean can actually see his eyes narrow: thanks.  "With actual monsters on the way?  And a psychic about to have a sleep-deprivation breakdown of town-ending proportions?  And--"  Dean stops there; on second thought, do they really need to list every fucking way they could die today?  No. They'll find out which one soon enough.  "Hey, future ref: is this how to handle these or should I do something else?"  
Cas snorts.  "It's not your responsibility to care for my apparently fragile and overactive brain chemistry."
"Yeah, it's not," Dean agrees.  "You called it a right.  Privilege, something like that.  As your partner. Hand shit, fevers, and now this."
Cas's flat stare doesn't change--like after five months of cohabitation, Dean can't stand up to that shit before breakfast, bring it, buddy--and then he snorts, lowering his head again and tucking it back on Dean's shoulder, which he interprets as 'you are right, Dean, and I was definitely wrong'.  Dean's tempted to help him out and say it, but the guy's tired: nightmares, crazy-ass town, Erica.  He can play nice.
"I'll talk to Vera," he adds, not smug or anything (he's better than that), then remembers Vera's not talking to him and yeah, that reminds him that Joe isn't either with very low chances that's ever going to change.  It's not that he didn't remember or anything, but not thinking about it (per Cas) really does work, right up until you start thinking about it and there goes that.
"I apologize for waking you," Cas starts, and Dean rolls his eyes. "I don't know--it was strange."
"Weird dream?" Cas nods.  "Tell me about it.  What time is it?"
"Two hours before dawn."
"We could get a couple more hours," Dean says, despite the fact sleep is a memory, and from Cas's expression, he's not feeling it either.  Whatever, not like he has any objection to just lying here with Cas for a while.  "Fake it for a while, might work."
"I doubt it."  Cas sighs.  "I am beginning to dislike dreaming."
"Preach it." He tries not to grin at Cas's disgruntled snort.  "What was it about, anyway?  Was I--you know, the usual, murdering everyone and scheming to rule Hell? Wait, am I ruling Hell now and you dreamed the afterparty?" Considering what a day in the life apparently consisted of--well, it's not like he can't imagine.  Probably a much bigger version of what he'd dreamed of doing to Alistair when he took over the Pit.  With Cas involved, though--probably some interesting additions. Like mass performance art torture, even.
"No," Cas answers before Dean can get far enough to wonder if it would be organized into acts or start to worry about why the hell he's wondering at all.  He's hit his limit on worry for the next twenty-four hours; gotta save something for tomorrow. "Actually, I think it was pleasant, until--" He stops short, and Dean immediately comes on alert; he knows that kind of silence.  "Buried alive."
"Okay, that--" Might actually be worse than living it up in The Pit: Chitaqua Edition, and by that he means, worse as fuck.  "Like--uh--in a coffin?" What the hell did he just say?  "Or--hey, you don't have to talk about--"
"Not that kind of buried alive," Cas says in a completely different voice, which--wait, there are kinds? "Dean, what were you dreaming of?  When I woke you up?"
He knew it.  "I gave you freaky dreams, didn't I?" Dean demands, sitting up.  "I told you--"
"Stop there," Cas says shortly, rolling onto his back and recovered enough to look really unimpressed with Dean's completely justified horror at this obvious turn of events.  Of course he's giving his partner literal nightmares; he got him thrown out of Heaven, hunted by the Host and fighting fucking archangels once upon a time.  "Skip the pointless recriminations and describe it to me." Then, "I need the--distraction.  From my fragile mental state, which as you stated, is your right to attempt to soothe.  You were correct on all points: now soothe me."
Despite everything, Dean takes a moment to wonder how it is he can lose arguments by winning.  "You really want to hear about my dream that gave you--fine," he adds when Cas rolls his eyes, "may have given you nightmares?  To soothe you."
"Yes." Cas folds an arm under his head.  "Let the soothing commence."
Okay, so that's--fuck his life.  He tries to think, grasping at images hovering on the very edge of memory. "I was in a garden." Wait.  "I mean, a specific garden. It was Constanza's."
"In Laredo," Cas says with a weird lack of surprise, and Dean nods warily.  "You never told me about it, about what happened on the border."
"You have most of my memories," Dean argues, then remembers, right: infinite memory and no google.  Cas can't just pull up memories in an instant anymore unless they're his own (or triggered, which isn't better).  "Right, okay. After I left La Cruces, I drove down the Rio Grande looking for signs of anything until I hit Laredo.  I called Bobby before I got there, so by the time I arrived, I had a new ID and the basics on what a new border guard would known.  The area was ninety percent Latino, I didn't speak any Spanish, and I sure as fuck didn't sound like I came from anywhere in Texas, much less there; I wasn't gonna pass for a resident of the state, much less someone from anywhere on the border. A couple of days after I arrived, there was another attack; I only caught the end of it, but it wasn't like anything I'd ever seen. I met Zena the next day at this little empanada place; that's all they sold and they had every kind you can imagine.  Pretty sure Constanza must have seen me and had Zena do follow up; there aren't a lot of white guys wandering around the colonias, or at least, many with a good reason to be there. Good for the residents, I mean."
Cas looks vaguely interested, which is the gold standard right now when it comes to food. "Empanadas?  What kind?"
"Every kind," Dean confirms, making a mental note to find every recipe involving empanadas (and jalapeños) that he can. "You could literally smell the chorizo cooking.  Chorizo and potato with fresh cilantro, ham and cheese, fajita-seasoned chopped steak, mango-peach, apple…." Crap, now he's getting hungry.  "Anyway, Zena was behind me when I bought a couple of dozen, wondered what army I was feeding.  We got to talking and--"
"Hooked up?" Cas says, mouth quirking, and Dean laughs.
"Yeah, but I took her to dinner first," he answers. "Told her all about my fake job as a border guard.  She was really interested, asked me all kinds of questions.  Of course, she probably knew more about the job that I did, being a lawyer down there, so maybe she just liked storytime.  Came back to the motel with me after, didn't even pretend it was for drinks." He feels himself smile.  "Next morning, she asked me if I wanted her to show me around the town.  Didn't even seem surprised someone who was supposed to have a job hadn't gotten an apartment already, which yeah in retrospect, I should have wondered about." He laughs again. "I couldn't believe my luck."
"I assume she was surprisingly amenable no matter how strange the places were that you requested to see?"
"White border guard asking to look around the colonias?  Even then, I didn’t think that would go over well.  But some of our routes to her suggestions went through there," he adds.  "Back then, no google maps, so no idea if that was the regular route, but on a guess, she was just double checking her conclusions on me.  Not that she even hinted she figured it out," he adds.  "She left that to Tía Constanza and three other women ages thirty-five to one hundred and two--not even fucking with you--to get my entire life story from my first memory to the last thing I said to Zena before she opened the door right after telling me how her aunt was dying to meet me."
"What did you say?" Cas asks curiously.
"'Cool'."  Cas laughs, but the sharp gaze increases.  "Anyway, I passed or whatever, and we talked, got rid of the thing, and I went to Iowa for a job. It was unreal, there was--" 
"How on earth did you find out about a job in Iowa while in south Texas?"
"Not sure," he admits.  "Another hunter, I guess--" Dean stops short, thinking through the automatic answer; that can't be right.  "There weren't any other hunters anywhere near the border," he says slowly.  "Hunters almost never go that far south, at least ones not native to the borders states; until me, Constanza had only met three, all north of Austin.  I was the first hunter in memory ever to step foot in Laredo and she'd know." He looks at Cas.  "I never talked to Constanza in the garden in the middle of the night. It was ninety fucking degrees even at midnight.  Why would I--"
"You were talking to her," Cas interrupts. "In chairs? Standing up?"
Dean stares at him for a long moment.  "You know something."
"The problem is what I don't know and your answer will tell me," Cas answers, sitting up as well.  "Dean, this is important; what were you doing?"
Dean licks his lips and thinks.  "I was--" She was talking.  Twenty-three is always immortal.  "Kneeling," he whispers.  "There was--a circle. It wasn't complete." He meets Cas's eyes.  "And it wasn't just Constanza." Then, "She said I was twenty-three, but I wasn't.  I was--"
"You were a few months past your twenty-third birthday."  
Dean searches his face.  "That wasn't just a dream."
"No, it wasn't."  Cas's expression goes through a twenty-book series of expressions before settling on something he can only interpret very loosely as 'aggravation'.  "Of all the times…." He shakes his head sharply.  "We need to get dressed," he says. "Teresa will have coffee ready by now, I hope."  Before Dean can even open his mouth, Cas shakes his head again.  "I’m not being deliberately obtuse, just--careful. Even if I'm not bound by some parts of natural law any longer--and I do look forward to exploring that, in detail--this isn't about that."
Dean doesn't move.  "What aren't you telling me?"  This shit never ends well, and anything that Cas won't talk about after all their Pit pillow talk….
Cas grimaces.  "Dean, I--" He pauses. "You have always taken promises seriously.  This is one that should not be broken."
Oh God, he hates it when Cas is right.  "Fine," he says grudgingly.  "You made a promise?"
"No," Cas says as he gets out of bed. "You did."
Teresa and Alison are both awake, and Alison only sighs when she opens the door, leading them to the kitchen, redolent with the smell of coffee and inhabited by a grim-looking Teresa in jeans and a flannel, dark hair half falling out of a messy knot, standing in front of the kitchen table looking at a map of Ichabod--one of Tony's new ones by the existence of the wall on it.
Generally, Teresa projects the kind of effortless calm that can only be the result of years and years and years of work.  Watching her, you think of still valleys, quiet forests, calm pools: the earth, you might say.
Here's the thing: that's not all the earth.  It's not even most of the earth.  And even the parts that sometimes are, they're not that even most of the time.  Teresa's still, sure, and the kitchen's quiet, but it's not the kind of quiet where you stretch out on the grass and take a nap.  It's the kind where you run for doorways or basements or make for your SUV and start driving fast, because something's about to happen, something big, and you can't stop it and you can't hide from it and the best you can do is hope you survive it.
Dean smiles; when you're sharing a room with a living, breathing fault line that could crack the earth, a tsunami about to hit the shore, or a volcano on the cusp of eruption, it's not like anything is going to help you, so might as well meet your fate looking cool.
"Whoever it is, tell them I'm not available," Teresa snaps, and Dean can almost hear the miniscule shift of earth in every syllable, like magnitude is still uncertain but definitely, definitely climbing.  "Alison, you have to be able to sense one of them--"
"You truly believe the earth would not guard against a psychic?" Cas asks curiously, and Teresa spins around, looking at them in shock.  "Especially one bonded to you?  Good morning. I'm going to get some coffee.  You should have some as well."
"Uh."  She looks between them, rocking between anger and bafflement. "What did Zack tell you?  Tell him I'll apologize when I find them."
"Zack," Cas says, inexplicably pouring three cups of coffee and fixing each one, "did not."  Picking up the first one, he gives it to Teresa and then glances at Alison, who shifts a chair close enough to nudge Teresa in the back of the knees.  "Sit down.  You'll accomplish nothing with hysterics."
"Hysterics?" Teresa says dangerously--that, Dean reflects, is what a tornado hitting F-fucking-5 sounds like when you and your entire goddamn town are about to be sucked in--setting the coffee cup on the table, which was totally a mistake; Cas gives one gentle push and she's in the chair that Alison ruthlessly pushes toward the table.  "You don't understand."  Then she pauses looking between them as Cas picks up Alison's empty cup and returns to finish the other cups and refill Alison's.  "Then you're not here because of Zack?"
"Uh, anyone want to tell me what's happening?" Dean asks as Cas hands him his cup, because sure, it's great to listen to inexplicable conversation--oh, right, it’s not.  "What about Zack?"
"Apparently he drew the short straw and was the one left at the hospital in case anyone asked any questions," Alison says with a sigh, sitting down to Teresa's right and smiling gratefully as Cas hands her a cup.  "Sit down, Dean; he's fine.  Just no one really expects to be cross-examined by an angry witch before dawn."
Sitting across from Teresa, Dean starts to take a drink before what Alison said penetrates.  "What?  Why?  Where's James and the rest of the team?"
"From what I gathered when Teresa let Zack finish an answer," she says deliberately, and Teresa makes a face, taking another drink of coffee, "they didn't feel comfortable letting Neer and Sudha go alone, even with Rabin for protection, and of course there was the baby to consider.  So they insisted on accompanying them."
"James showed excellent judgement," Cas interjects in approval, taking the chair between him and Teresa.  "I'd expect no less of him."
"Go James," Dean agrees.  "Now, any chance we find out where and hey, how about why?  Sudha gave birth less than forty-eight hours ago; she shouldn't be wandering around Ichabod."
"Where--anywhere inside the walls," Teresa says venomously. "The earth won't tell me and Alison can't find them.  Why--only one reason." She sets her cup down again, and Dean realizes her hands are shaking.  "Sudha and Neeraja are making their offering to the earth."
"Now?"  Christ, no wonder Teresa's worried.  "Look, I get it, but trust me, James and Mira won't let anything get near them, and Nate…." Fuck knows what he can do without drywall and paint (not useful in a field or valley, or so he assumes), but Dean is pretty sure that watching over two witches and a baby he helped deliver, he'll be inspired to find out.  Not that it's likely there's anything supernatural inside the Wall, in which case, he kind of pities any human who thinks they can take them.  
(It's not just Nate they have to worry about.  James was into martial arts before Chitaqua and gives lessons, and Mira's five-feet thee inches of gymnastics-conditioning-level murder.  She was the one who taught Amanda and Alicia how to literally kick the head off of something (or somebody) with some move you learn in fucking ballet. He didn't even know ballet had shit like that.  He just can't get over how awesome that is and doesn't even think about how weird it is he finds that awesome anymore.)
"That's not--"  Teresa licks her lips.  "They're not ready."
"Okay, but why?  Not old enough, not enough training--"
"Once they've completed their apprenticeship, the offering can be made upon reaching age twenty-one, which is when you're considered a full adult and can give consent," Teresa answers tiredly.  "But most wait until thirty at least. It's safer."
"The earth has very strict standards of consent," Cas adds.  "Possibly the strictest in Creation, and it takes them very seriously.  While the human brain is still growing, twenty-one is when it displays full adult reason and understanding of consequences.  The body is also almost fully mature; what is given during the offering cannot be contained in an immature body.  For Sudha, I can't think of anything better to assure her safety and that of Jaya.  What are you worried about?"
"At least two or three more years of instruction and experience," she answers rigidly, turning to look at Cas.  "It's a minimum of five years instruction for a reason."
"From what I've observed, you had both on an accelerated schedule consummate with their age and abilities," he answers.  "Unlike younger apprentices, they were mature enough to understand the importance of their progress.  I don't doubt the quality of the education you provided, and they are certainly within the ideal age range: Sudha is thirty-five and Neeraja thirty-seven."
"You know it's more than age," she argues, looking frustrated.  "It's--it's the offering itself."
"They're tested," Dean says, watching for Teresa's nod.  "You think they'll fail?"
"It's a test," Teresa says. "That's what it is to us. To the earth, it's--something else.  Maybe a lot of things, I’m not sure."
"What does the earth think it is?"
"Taking what we're offering," she answers rigidly.  "Our offering is ourselves, whole and entire, holding back nothing." Dean catches his breath, getting it. "It's not about wanting to do it or will power or whatever; it's about overcoming our own self-preservation, our fear, our own instincts, and not just letting it happen, but keep letting it happen until it's done. Part of our training is learning how to do that, and that's not something you're born able to do; it has to be learned and it's the hardest lesson for a witch to learn.  And even with that--even after you're ready, even when you're sure, it's--"
"--a leap of faith," Cas says softly.  She nods.  "You were twenty-one, the youngest to attempt it in all your history."
"The youngest to succeed," Teresa corrects him.  "Even then, I knew it was dangerous.  And stupid."
Twenty-three is always immortal.  "You still did it," Dean says.
"On my twenty-first birthday," she agrees. "Literally. I was born at 1:08 in the morning; I waited up and at 1:08 exactly, I made my offering.  Mama was furious and you can imagine how well that went over when everyone came for my party and found out."  She swallows, looking at Cas defiantly. "It was reckless, even I knew that."
"But it was necessary," he says, and Teresa looks startled. "Dean, you're aware of course why hunters rarely hunt on the border, but it has two sides.  Between the imperialism that led to the Spanish conquest of the Americas and motivated the acquisition of the southern and western states from Mexico by the United States, and racism against both those of indigenous ancestry and those who lived or still live in Mexico, as well as general xenophobia, even on the rare occasions that American hunters hunted the border, they were often as destructive to those living there as the things they hunted."
Dean nods shortly; he'd guessed something like that from what Constanza and the other witches said, not to mention having a working understanding of how history happened.
"For Texas, the solution began over two hundred years ago," Teresa starts.  "After the Spanish Conquest, some of us moved to settle north of the Rio Grande, and started to expand our protection to those living there, as we'd done in southern Mexico.  After the Texas Revolution, we were still north of the Rio Grande, that now being the new southern border of Texas, but that didn't change anything but our presumed citizenship. The problem, of course, was there weren't that many of us--our numbers always grew or shrank with the population we needed to protect--and there were a lot of settlers coming in, more every day. Worse, many of them were coming from the north and had no idea what was waiting for them.  And didn't listen to the locals," she adds, which doesn’t surprise Dean at all.  
"The long-term plan was to spread slowly along the southern border using the Rio Grande as an anchor and extend our protections to both sides of the border; that had been the plan even before the Rio Grande was a political border since rivers are great natural barriers.  Unfortunately, the population grew far more quickly than we anticipated, and all those new, unprotected settlements were attracting way too much attention.  The border of Texas is roughly one thousand, nine hundred and fifty-four miles; divided into thirty mile increments with a bruja blanca in each would be ideal, but impossible; there'd never been more than thirty full witches at any given time in a general area, and we couldn't possibly increase our number to sixty-five in just a few years, much less assume we could maintain that number into perpetuity." She shrugs. "However, in all our history, there's also never been less than thirteen. Sometimes all in the same family, but thirteen."
"So you went with the possible," Dean says  "What was that?"
"There was nothing, so we made it up." He nods again; he lives with someone who does that.  "Or rather, many-greats-grandmother Maria Baptista did.   The question was, what did we actually want?  To homestead the entire border at thirty mile intervals--and for the record, no one wanted that at all, especially two hundred years ago--or just be there when there was something that needed our attention?  All we actually needed was to know, and with thirteen witches?  That we could do."
"Sixty-five is also a multiple of thirteen, in case anyone was unaware of that," Cas offers, because he does that.
Teresa's mouth twitches.  "Exactly.  Each witch would make a claim encompassing thirty miles of the border, one hundred and fifty miles apart, then all thirteen witches would be formally joined together, which acted something like a multiplier, at least symbolically. When the ritual was complete, the entire border would be symbolically claimed, and we could listen--or the equivalent--along the entire border.  It wasn't nearly as powerful as a true claim would be, but for our purposes, it didn't need to be.  At first, it was just that--a sense of something wrong, and generally, something fairly big, not just a stray chupacabra or bored vampire here, so something we definitely needed to investigate.  With time and each generation that passed, however, it got stronger.  We individually weren't any stronger--same variation in power each generation--but the power of those that went before us saturated the joining."
That explains a lot about the border. "What about now?"
"Only God knows of the fall of every sparrow," she answers solemnly.  "But if the sparrow is possessed by a demon and crosses the border, we all know about it.  There's one drawback, though, and it's similar to the one at the Kansas border."
"I feel like I'm being tested," Dean says, because this is his life, and Teresa smiles, not denying it.  "So--if you drop under thirteen for some reason, and it falls, you can't raise it--" No, that's not right. "You lose all the generations of power.  You'd be back to basics, when you get thirteen again and raise it, I mean.  You'd lose all the generational build-up."
"Got it in one," she says, pleased.  "As I said, having thirteen witches available had never been a problem. If there's one thing witches can do and do well, it's breed, and with this on the line, we made sure of it.  We'd had a few intermarriages with the Spanish and French colonists who'd been sensitive enough to get our attention, but not many.  Now we needed numbers and fast, so we got more direct about it. Anyone who showed a hint of the ability to feel the earth or any power was fair game, from white American colonists and free African American farmers to those escaping slavery who ended up on the border.  A good thing, too: it stopped some seriously dangerous inbreeding because, not kidding, purity of bloodline was actually a thing for way too long." She shudders.  "Surprisingly, when you aren't marrying your first cousin for the three generations straight--"
"And the occasional uncle or aunt," Cas offers, probably because he feels it's his job to do this. "Though to be fair, the last time was at least four hundred years ago."
"Yeah, we don't even look at that part of the family tree anymore," Teresa says with another shudder.  "Book's made out of cowhide, too, so great excuse to ignore it. Healthy births went up, so genetic diversity for the win, and we also built a community to support us, which isn't something we really had before, just fellow villagers of various types, sometimes hostile.
"Even more surprising--to us, though apparently not the earth--we discovered that the ability to hear the earth didn't need to be inborn; it could be taught, and that alone tripled the numbers who could potentially make the offering.  When my grandmother made the offering, there were fifty full witches, twice that many apprentices, and every child was born with at least a little inborn power, which isn't necessary but is a nice bonus. We also knew by then that older was always better when it comes to making the offering; there's no benefit in doing it younger and a lot of danger, and after thirty, the risk of mortality dropped to almost zero unless you had a weak heart, and yes, we started full physicals after that." She shrugs. "For us, coming to it later in life is a big advantage; the older you are when you make the offering, the more you can do off the bat and the rest comes a lot faster. We generally don't have access to the full power of the earth until our mid-fifties, or after menopause if you're subject to it, which we're guessing is probably used as an indicator that the body can now focus all its resources on channeling and controlling that much raw power. We kind of assume at this point the earth is using a general biological hormonal standard on when we're done with futzing around with making or caring for young kids and can get down to business full time."  She takes a drink. "Not that a witch ever stops growing in power, especially when it's inborn," she adds.  "But that's more individual, and truthfully, there's not much use for it.  Outside battle or specific services to the earth, it's practically useless once you reach a certain level; developing and keeping up your skills is far more important, and a witch never stops learning new skills.  What we hunt is as smart or smarter than we are, and they're just as quick to learn."
Dean allows himself a second to take in the realization that Teresa is still at least a decade and change off her full power--Jesus Christ.  And will keep getting stronger after.  "But something happened," he says, and her smile fades.  "When you were twenty-one."
"When I was twelve," she answers.  "Random, we never saw it coming: a flu epidemic hit the colonias."
Dean lets out a breath.  Everything he knows about the colonias he learned from Zena and Constanza and his own eyes, and while that doesn't make him anything close to an expert, he knows enough to recognize disaster.  "Jesus. How many?"
"Five hundred was what we were told, but that really is a guess; entire families were gone in days," she answers tonelessly.  "Not just Laredo: we're talking Brownsville to El Paso, and a lot of towns on either side of the border, and no one has the number for the Mexico side, even us.  No one really paid attention who didn't live there; a lot of it happened on the wrong side of the border or in the wrong neighborhoods on this side.  The living conditions in some areas were--" She swallows. "The landlords only do what they have to, and if they can get away with not doing it, they will, so when it hit, it was bad.  Usually, the old and very young are the most vulnerable, but this strain…we lost twenty-five witches under fifty and all the older apprentices. There were four doctors, nine nurses, and several EMTs among them. The younger apprentices--like me--had been put in full isolation with Tia Esperanza when it started," she adds. "Mama didn't take any chances; she kept us there until a full month after the last case, no one in, no one out.  When we got out and they told us…I was the oldest apprentice still alive.  A generation and a half of witches, gone."
She swallows, shaking herself, and silently, Dean gets her cup and refills it, trying to match what he saw Cas do before bringing it (and the sugar and cream) back to the table and giving her a spoon.  Almost gratefully, she tests it, adding more sugar, probably more to give herself a moment.
"Then there was normal attrition, except it wasn't normal; what you'd expect over three generations happened at once," she continues, voice too-careful and Dean sees Cas watching her intently.  "Three in their seventies and one in their eighties died of natural causes within a three month period, which may sound on the outside of normal, except that really doesn’t happen to us."
He remembers the ages of the women he saw; Constanza was the youngest full witch in Laredo at the time.  "You live a while."
"Seventy is very young for an earth-bound witch," Cas confirms, and Teresa nods in what Dean thinks might be relief, reaching for her cup again with hands way too steady not to be taking all her control.  
Twelve years old, he thinks, trying to imagine it; she was the oldest.  Months in isolation, and you come out to a new, smaller world than the one you left.  All the older students are dead, and adult witches as well, girls and boys, men and women that were their classmates and teachers, friends and family; that's trauma by any standard, and you may learn to live with it, but getting over it--never.  
"As Teresa explained, age is an advantage when making the offering," Cas continues.  "That power keeps their bodies surprisingly healthy and active no matter how they may superficially appear to the untrained or particularly stupid eye.  Witches generally die in battle or when their bodies simply can no longer handle the amount of power being channeled through them.  Time is variable, but as of Constanza's generation, they generally reach a century and a decade or two. With the advances in modern medicine and an excellent diet, Teresa could easily reach a hundred and thirty or even a century and a half with little if any physical impairment, though I wouldn't recommend running a marathon. Then again, I wouldn't recommend those now; how can anyone run for miles and not expire of boredom?" he wonders out of nowhere, and from the corner of his eye, he sees Teresa's mouth twitch, color coming back to her cheeks.  "No terrain is that interesting to observe."
"You're going to live to a hundred and fifty?" Alison bursts out, and Teresa fumbles her cup, startled, as Alison's eyes widen and she drops back in her chair.  "Oh my God, I'm going to live to a hundred and fifty?  What the hell am I going to do when I'm a hundred and ten?"
"That's what you're worried about?" Teresa asks blankly.
"You being a super-active century-plus wandering around the towns doing witch-shit with nubile young octogenarians and me in a wheelchair at home looking like a century old apple with no teeth?" Alison asks incredulously.  "Yeah, I kind of am!"
"As long as I’m active, you will be," Teresa says slowly, staring at Alison as if she's doubting her sanity.  "Our lives are joined and all is shared, which is why your blood pressure now makes Dolores happy and not chew her lip.  Though at this rate, I might put you in that wheelchair myself."
Alison sits back, relieved.  "Well, okay, then."  
They stare at each other and then Teresa's mouth twitches into a faint smile.  "Nubile octogenarians?"
"Not saying you couldn't have your pick of the litter at any age," Alison says smugly, "but you get impatient with the under-thirty crowd now and I anticipate your threshold will rise with age."
"Point," she agrees, relaxing.  "Where were we before the love of my life had a crisis?"
"You're gonna live a while," Dean says, realizing that actually, there's no way to know what Cas's lifespan is going to be.  His body was recreated by his Father when He resurrected him, and any natural aging wouldn't have kicked in until he fully Fell.  He doesn't get sick, either.
"Right.  Four deaths of old age, then one witch died in childbirth--"  She sees Cas's attention and nods.  "That's when we knew something was going on, even if we couldn't work out what it was or find any cause.  For reference: if I die in childbirth, it's a curse, a hex, or something else, but whatever it is, it's definitely murder.  That doesn't happen, not anymore.  The earth made it extremely difficult before, but modern medicine and an increase in overall health and knowledge took care of the very rare exceptions.  Around the same time, there were some apparently legitimate border fights, but too many; all full witches over sixty, all very strong, experienced, all now at their full potential.  Take out some under forties--that happened too much, too, but they're still young enough to be stupid--but over fifty?  No, not unless they're overmatched, and again, we've been doing this for more centuries than we have written records; to do that would take an epic event, not a border skirmish.  That’s when we stopped caring what it was so we could stop it and moved straight to protecting everyone from it."
"It wasn't just really bad luck." Dean looks at Cas and remembers when they talked about the camps, and attrition among hunters and specifically hunter families.  "It was deliberate."
"It was Lucifer, or rather, a pre-Luciferite--before they took that ridiculous name due to Satanists considering them utterly insane and also sadly lacking in a sense of irony--doing his work," Cas says, and Teresa looks both alarmed and then relieved.  "I’m assuming your mother and the other brujas blancas came to the same conclusion and then doubted themselves. No, you weren't overestimating your importance; hunting families were having similar problems with high attrition as of five years ago, according to my research. However, I long suspected it started earlier, but no one had any reason to wonder.  At least, not among hunters not affiliated with witches, which would be most of them."
"You really think--that far back?" Teresa asks, startled.  "How long?"
"A little over three decades," Cas says more vaguely than he ever is, which Dean is going to assume means 'from the literal moment of Dean Winchester's birth but I really can't say that for many reasons'.  "With hunters, natural causes and their lifestyle would give plausible deniability and allow a shorter time period, but with witches, especially brujas blancas of your tradition, he needed as much time as possible to hope to be unnoticed, and even so, you noticed.  He's not very good at this, no.  Please continue; we'll need to schedule a future time we can discuss your entire history, preferably as soon as feasible."
Teresa smiles, relaxing for the first time since she started talking about the deaths.  "I look forward to it.  Anyway, I'd just turned fourteen when Mama and the others decided to shift everything to defense.  The apprentices were moved out of the city and onto Tia Esperanza's farm with her and two other teachers, and with the power of every living witch behind her, Mama raised a full ward over us on a six-month clock; no one in, no one out, and no one and nothing could find us, even another witch. There were only thirteen full witches left; they were all moved to Laredo--I mean literally, we rented out every moving van in a hundred miles--and put under every type of ward that would still let them work.  While the youngest witch of the Thirteen--and at the time, the youngest still alive--was forty-one, the oldest was one hundred and ten and not in the best health.  She did agree to leave field work and move to Laredo with the understanding that when the six month lockdown expired, if it was decided to raise it again, she'd join us as our teacher and pass on as much as she could to us."
Dean almost says you had a hundred and ten year old woman out in the field except that's what she just said so yeah, that apparently happened.  On the other hand: Jesus, with that kind of working timespan, if Chitaqua could recruit some witches, those taught by Teresa anyway….  "How long were you on that farm?"
"A year and a half," Teresa answers ruefully.  "Mama and the others gave out we were in boarding school or something, I don't remember.  Later, when I asked how they decided to let us out, she said--" She frowns, shaking her head.  "The earth said it had solved the problem, but it wasn't clear on what the problem was.  It's not like we hadn't asked before, and it seemed as baffled as we were--" She stops, staring at Castiel.  "Lucifer.  Did he order her not to tell us what was happening?"
"No; if he had done something that incredibly stupid, it would have known he was doing something to you and stopped it earlier," Castiel answers, sitting back.  "He's not--at least in this--a complete idiot; he couldn’t order the earth to do or not do anything that might harm its acolytes and hope to be obeyed no matter his rights to Creation's obedience--and I would like to say I consider those rights rather questionable, as he'd been exiled to Hell for his crimes, but no one asked me." Even Teresa bites her lip at that.  "Losing that many of its witches and their offspring would have been very distracting and very distressing for the earth, however, so he probably assumed that would give him sufficient time to finish."
"All of us," Teresa says, then her eyes widen. "The apprentices."
"An entire generation of potential witches," Castiel agrees.  "Combined with losing most of an earlier generation of full witches during the epidemic and the attrition after, by the time the Apocalypse started, there wouldn't be enough of you alive to matter."  Unexpectedly, he starts to smile. "Lucifer must have been furious; he never considered you might save yourselves.  Short of coming himself--which he couldn’t do--he was effectively helpless.  No one and nothing  else would be capable of breaking wards raised by thirteen full witches with the earth behind them.  Doubtless, he still tried; that was very stupid of him.  We can take as a given the minion assigned to the task was just as stupid to believe they could do it; he has a type."
"Why?" Teresa lets out a breath.  "That's when the earth saw something?"
"The earth may be able to give an exact narration of event, but as her perspective can be--odd--this is a very educated guess," Cas answers, looking so maliciously pleased that Dean can feel himself smiling. "Think of it, if you will: he sends someone to test the extremely powerful wards set by bound acolytes of the earth to protect the remaining children that were training to be its next acolytes.  All of the earth's attention was on that farm, Teresa, and that is a very great deal; nothing within Creation could have hoped to remain unnoticed.  Doubtless she only waited long enough to find out who sent them before she dealt with them.  Knowing who the enemy was, she would have taken measures to discourage further attempts."
"How could she stop Lucifer?"
"Within his cage, he was helpless; that's why he recruited others to do his work on earth, and she could easily deal with them.  His minions might be monsters, but they were still human, formed of earth's ashes and her dust.  Their service to Lucifer would have tainted them and she would have sensed it. If you're curious about what happened to them, I'm not entirely certain, but if we're fortunate enough to find out, I hope to hear that they were the first humans to ever see the earth's core."
Teresa bursts into laughter, then covers her mouth, looking like she wonders if she should feel guilty, but honestly, Dean can't see why.  Fuck with the earth, shit happens.  In the molten core, even.
"I apologize for my interruption," Cas says. "Please continue and also, accept my congratulations for so successfully thwarting Lucifer.  I only wish I could have seen his expression when he realized how thoroughly he failed."
"Thanks," Teresa answers, relaxed in her chair now.  "Once we'd done everything we could to limit the damage, we turned our attention to rebuilding as quickly as we could.  That was easier than we expected; as I said, the inborn power was universal now, but more importantly, we had a large population to draw from. Many who originally decided against it or simply didn't feel drawn returned to become apprentices.  Like Zena," she adds, giving Dean a glance, and he pretends he's not flushing.  "Apprenticing as an adult does have its advantages--training can be completed in five years, and those born into one of our families could do it in less, they'd absorbed most of it just growing up. It's not just education in what we do and deciding if you're fit for it--or even want to, though that's a big part.  It's learning what it means to make the offering and how to do it.  It took fifteen years to get back to full strength or better, but we didn't have fifteen years when it came to the border protections.
"With a spell that strong, there was some leeway, though," she adds.  "You said the Kansas border is taking a week to collapse; with roughly two hundred years behind it, we had a year and a day from the death of one of the thirteen to replace them.  And considering how many things we pissed off with our protections…."
"It would be ground zero for everything just from spite," Dean finishes for her.  Like Kansas right now.  "What was the final deadline?"
"They minimized it around the apprentices--and especially me--but it's not like I couldn't do the math. When Tia Margarita died, the countdown began: ten days after my twenty-first birthday, the border would collapse.  I had to be so careful," she adds, mouth quirking.  "They watched me, especially Mama.  There was talk--not in my hearing, or so they thought--of sending me to Houston to tutor one of my cousins who was taking up her apprenticeship since her last kid started college.  Why they thought that would stop me, no idea; I could make my offering there. I guess they thought out of sight, out of mind.  Which really wasn't going to work."
"Which is probably why they didn't send you," Dean remarks. "Better to keep you close and watch you.  So I gotta know--how'd you get out to do it?"
"Truthfully? Because while they suspected I'd try on my birthday or right after, they were thinking that night, as in, after the party.  They didn't see me using the technicality of time of birth to get in early," she says.  "Honestly, I only thought of it the week before, so they weren't entirely wrong."
Dean starts to laugh and hears Alison and Cas join in.  Teresa laughs with them, then sighs.
"It was reckless," she says.  "But it had to be done; I wouldn't leave the border at the mercy of a single monster.  And it worked."
"Did I ever tell you two how Neer and Sudha found out what Teresa was?" Alison says brightly, breaking the brief silence, and Teresa's head comes up sharply. "You gotta hear this.  It was right after Teresa and I moved in together--"
"I don't think they'd be interested," Teresa says in a voice that says she and Alison may not be living together much longer at this rate.
"I'm interested," Cas says, because natural disasters in progress beside him--all of them--don't even make the cut for 'worrying'.
"So they were weird around Teresa--not for the gay thing, by the way, they'd been trying to set me up with Neer's cousin Suba forever until she started dating this hot engineer from Tripoli--but I figured they were being protective, after my…thing with a really hot game designer while we were in Kolkata--long story," she says, waving a hand, but there's a suspicious redness to her face and Dean files that away for an extended storytime. "All's well that ends well and they had my passport ready and no one was arrested but in case anyone's curious, Sudha has one hell of a right hook."
There's no fucking way he's going to die today; he's getting this story from Sudha.  Being uncle in law of her kid has got to mean something .
"Anyway, they'd disappear when she did, which honesty, I didn't really notice or care, since I was learning how to plow fields, shoot rifles, and eat animals I'd been petting four hours before," she adds, looking briefly haunted.  "So I don't pet them anymore, obviously.  Eventually, I found out what was going on; when Teresa was still out of practice doing shit in the fields--"
"Calling on the earth in the context of the planting and harvest, and again, I'd never been in practice; I learned it as part of my training."
"Every time she went out to do it, there they were.  Turns out, they weren't stalking her worried this was Nyota Mark II: they just had a really, really strong urge to go hang out with her and stand there literally watching her do nothing," Alison continues, grin widening as Teresa's eyes narrow.  "So yeah, they were wary; it was freaking them out.  Eventually, Teresa noticed.  Took a while," she adds maliciously, and Teresa opens and shuts her mouth like she's ripping living flesh from bone with it.  "You'd think you'd notice two women standing ten feet away watching you and the dirt for no reason, but--"
"I was distracted relearning how to do--never mind." She sighs heavily, then her mouth twitches as she meets Alison's wide, innocent eyes.  "Fine, I really should have noticed.  That's actually a really big sign--neon with fireworks--to sense the earth at that level, enough for the earth to make a clear connection without them even knowing it.  It wanted them, and you can't ignore that.  My biggest problem then was that I didn't know how compatible my tradition was with how they practiced Hinduism.  I had to tell them, though; when the earth wants your attention, it gets it, and dragging them out to the fields was barely a nudge compared to some of its methods.  So, I explained everything, what the training entailed, and told them to think it over, and they thought it over for a whole ten seconds and asked when we could start.  So I took them to the fields and tested them.  And understood exactly why the earth was calling them."
"They were that strong?" Cas asks.  
"They were that strong," she confirms.  "Latent, but exposure to the earth was bringing it out.  Inborn power isn't really all that important, however; once you're bound to the earth, it's like a sandbox to the Sahara no matter how strong you are, especially once you reach your full potential. Its major use is it gives you a lot more options when you can't or shouldn't use the earth's power, especially if you're a hunter.  The ability to hear it can be taught--it's one of our first lessons, actually--but some people, it just happens one day, like a switch flipping on.  Most of my family can feel it from birth, but that's determined breeding and training over generations in action.  The desire to serve is the only thing that matters; you aren't born with it and it can't be taught, it's a choice. " She frowns, shaking herself.  "From what they said, the first time they felt the earth was probably the first time I went into the fields.  They said they start following me because well, that's where they knew they were supposed to be."
"Of course they did," Cas says softly.  "An acolyte of the earth woke the land here for the first time in what has probably been literal centuries.  Everyone within thirty miles of you--your entire claim--who had any sensitivity at all would have felt it.  For those with a latent calling toward service to the earth, it would be very much like flipping on a light switch.  I assume you're testing regularly in the town; people who are ready and willing to be called will continue to manifest with this kind of constant exposure.  And you might consider the refugees: a week here will have awakened--and deeply confused--at least a few."
"Wish we'd talked earlier; it sure surprised me when I realized what was going on," Teresa says with a laugh.  "They're the ones volunteering for pretty much anything that takes them near the fields inside the walls, including watching the herds.  For hours.  We've been keeping track, and they're among those who have come to Claudia or Alison or Dolores directly asking about our immigration policy."
"What would it feel like?" Dean asks curiously.  "I mean--when you don't know?"
"Neer said it was like finding something you didn't know you were missing. Sudha said it was like coming home.  They were right," Teresa murmurs softly, then her expression changes, lips tightening.  "And now--because I didn't take precautions, Neer and Sudha--"
"Sneaked out of the hospital to make the offering so their teacher wouldn't have a chance to stop them," Cas interrupts. "I wonder who else did that?"
"It's not the same thing," Teresa argues. "They--"
"They're needed and they're ready," he says.  "You know they are, Teresa. And just as importantly, the earth knows it, which we should probably consider a valid reason for them to do it."
"The earth is the earth," she answers.  "You know she--"
"Apparently, it wasn't satisfied with them, though I don't know why," Cas continues, a note of aggravation in his voice.  "If it were, I'd still be asleep--or if awake, well on my way to at least one orgasm before dawn and hopefully two--and not instead had a secondhand dream of being pleasantly buried alive.  The 'pleasantly'," he adds deliberately, "is sarcasm, in case that needs saying. Though I assume the earth believed it would be."
"What? You felt…" She trails off, turning to look at Dean, then back at Cas.  "Oh God.  Tonight? Now?"
"Yes, tonight, as in roughly three quarters of an hour ago.  Dean, tell her what you told me," Cas says, leaning an elbow on the table.  "Specifically, what you were dreaming about tonight."
You know, weird thing; he kind of doesn't really at all care (want to know). "Uh, shouldn't we be concentrating on Neer and Sudha--"
"They're probably the safest people in the world at this moment," Cas says impatiently.  "If the earth doesn't take care of any potential problems, I pity anyone who does anything James or any of his team might decide could be interpreted as a threat.  Back to your dream: you were kneeling in a circle of dirt in Teresa's mother's garden, that's what you told me.  Before we go any further, Teresa, ask the earth if it is releasing Dean Winchester of his promise."
Teresa stares at him.  "You don't think--"
"Until the promise is released, I am ethically if not by natural law obligated to remain silent," he answers.  "However, my ethics are in constant flux, so if you would hurry up and ask--"
"Yes," she says abruptly, blinking slowly.  "I mean, he was already released.  A while back, it seems."
Cas gets an odd look on his face.  "When?"  Then he sighs. "Forgive me, I forgot the earth's understanding of time is--"
"No, this one has a clear reference point; it's my memory," she interrupts, then looks at Alison.  "You remember--that night. I mean, before you collapsed into a coma to up the drama in our lives."
Dean freezes.
"I do," Alison says softly.  "I never asked; what was it like for you?"
"The last light was snuffed out," she whispers.  "The stars were burned to nothing and darkness began to spill over the earth, withering the crops in the fields and the ground grew cold as it died…then it stopped."  The dark eyes grow distant.  "The entire sky was alight--everything was alight--and the light burned away the darkness and cold, leaving everything clean and new and bright, like the first dawn in all of time."  Teresa's eyebrows rise more with every word before she looks at them helplessly.  "She usually isn't this…."
"Yes, that's--surprisingly poetic," Cas says softly.
"She does that sometimes," Teresa says apologetically. "Probably my fault.  I was into the Romantics hardcore during my tragic misunderstood adolescent phase aka ages sixteen through my junior year of college, so consider this a blanket apology for what might be coming.  Really didn't see that coming."
"What do you mean?" Cas starts curiously, then frowns in annoyance.  "Never mind.  As Dean is formally released from his promise, I'm now free, morally, ethically, and by natural law--not that I care about the third--to tell Dean that what he experienced this morning did indeed happen."  Cas focuses on him.  "That night in Laredo, along with several of the preceding days and most of the following three months, were either altered or removed from your linear memory with your full permission."
It's got to be a gift to combine ominous with completely uninformative.  "What?" That's way too broad, backtrack. "You mean in Constanza's garden?  Not just--wait, three months?"  Cas crosses his arms and looks pointedly at Teresa.  "What the hell is going on?"
"I'm guessing this is my responsibility," Teresa says ruefully, giving Cas an amused glance before focusing on Dean.  "First, however: Dean Winchester, it's belated, but your service was invaluable and you have my thanks.  To observe the formalities: on behalf of those who cannot be here today, you are released of your promise to us in its entirety; we do it willingly and with gratitude." She folds her hands on the table.  "Now, the important part: Dean, when you were in Laredo, you made the offering to the earth and it accepted you.  Then you helped us kill a monster."
Dean says, "Bullshit."
@@@@@@
--Day 158, continued--

It's not bullshit.  Not even a little.
"So you're saying," Dean says, now armed with more (fresh) coffee, "I--did that--and don't remember because I agreed to not remember any of it?"
"That's the shortest version that approaches accuracy," Cas agrees.
"And you knew--okay, I get it wasn't relevant until we met Teresa, fine, but--you knew and didn't say anything? All this time?"
Cas nods.  "Even putting aside ethical concerns--and I do so with almost frightening ease these days--you were the one that made the promise to Constanza and the other members of the coven as well as the earth. The one to the earth I would have discarded if there was a need--you are my charge and I can do that--but the one to Constanza…." Cas pauses, and Dean finds himself remembering how Cas had consulted Amanda about what happened to Dean at the preschool, the reasons he'd decided that Dean didn't (yet) need to know.  It occurs to him this isn't just Cas navigating human; this is Cas following that inner sense of justice as applied to human at the most basic, and to an angel, to Cas, promises aren't the kind of thing you make and forget.  They mean something, maybe everything. "Fully informed consent was satisfied by Constanza and other members of the coven.  You were in your right mind before, during, and after; there was no duress exerted on you other than your own fear of what would happen to the people in Laredo. I knew you meant to respect that promise to Constanza and the other witches until the day you died.  Unless keeping it would be to your detriment or a situation occurred where this information needed to be revealed, it seemed--best." For the first time, Cas looks uncertain, watching Dean warily.
The thing is, he's right; promises aren’t something you just make and forget, not to either of them.  "You're right," he says finally.  "So I did--that--to help at the border?"
"Yes," Teresa agrees. "Except you weren't supposed to, not exactly.  That part--well, no one saw it coming."
Of course not.  "But it did," Dean says grimly.  "Why? And in case anyone's curious, I still can't remember anything.  Will I?"
"It's no longer hidden," she says, and he can tell she's genuinely trying to be reassuring. "Don't worry, it probably won't be a big dramatic reveal, just--small shifts as you remember more.  The design does privilege sanity over disclosure; it works with the natural functions of the human brain. Your brain has to integrate everything back into your memory's linear timeline and reform the connections with your other memories individually, which takes time."  She sits back.  "You told Mama about what you'd usually be doing on a hunt and afterward, and how you decided on the next one to make sure everything was consistent with what you'd expect to remember.  Before Mama actually did it, however, when the design was finalized, she told you exactly what was going to happen and why.  The parameters of what parts of your memory would be affected were clearly delineated and the agreement was witnessed by the earth, and got your final consent. For us, outside very specific and clear circumstances, we can't do anything at all involving human will--especially in regard to memory--that isn't explicitly agreed to, in detail."
"Look, I believe you," he says, because he does.  "Just--what was I doing?  Why did they need me?  I remember what Constanza said; it wasn't about amount of power, they had that to spare." He pauses, wondering if he did remember that before now, then decides not to think about that too hard.
"Power isn't everything," Teresa answers.  "Sometimes, what we need are people to bear the weight of it."
Dean looks at her blankly.
"Okay, you're having a party," she starts, thinking.  "Thirty people.  Would you just have one giant glass for everyone to drink out of one at a time, even if it held enough for everyone?"
"No, that's gross." But he does kind of think he knows where this is going.  "Okay, so wait; its not the amount of power, it's--" One person drinking at a time or several all at once.  "One person, no matter how powerful, can only use--release?--so much right at that moment."
"I know my metaphors," she says with a shaky smile.  "Exactly, at least when it comes to humans and most beings that can take a humanoid form; Mama thinks it may be physics as they apply to this universe, actually.  What happened in Laredo was the unexpected side effect of so many people coming back all at once; some were well into their apprenticeship who should have been extremely supervised or even rejected if we'd had more instructors and more oversight.  The apprentice in question was my first cousin, Mariana, one of those who came back in her late twenties."
"Not just an apprentice.  Family." Yeah, he can see that.  
"Family," Teresa agrees.  "I don't think anyone wanted to believe she wasn't fit.  When I caught her in an act meriting execution--manipulation of human will using compulsions for personal gain--I bound her with a full block and sent her home for judgment instead.  And I'll never forgive myself for it."
"She was family," Dean says quietly.
"And other people's families died for mine," she answers flatly, then shakes her head.  "In any case, like I said, she was powerful, but she didn’t just fail dramatically in character, but in common sense; she tried to summon something--we think she was trying for an Elemental, but no way to be sure after the fact.  That would have been bad enough, but as she didn't know what she was doing, she made a mess of it and called--something else."
So, worse than an Elemental: great.  "I don't remember--yet--what it was.  What was it?"
"You'll never remember because no one ever knew, including us. From what I worked out from a lot of research, it wasn't native to this plane and possibly not even this universe," Teresa says.  "Until we learned about the Misborn, that was best guess, but now--Cas, could it have been an Old One or one of their hybrids?"
"I'd need some time to search my memory, but it's possible, and if that is what it was, I should be able to identify it," Cas says.  "As you've studied it and I haven't, I'll assume you've eliminated all the other candidates, which leaves us with that or something else entirely. If it was an Old One or one of their far too numerous hybrid offspring, it would have to have been either a very degraded form or very, very young and not terribly powerful.  Truthfully, I want it to be an Old One variation; if not, it's going to be extremely surprising and I hate surprises like that."
"So Mariana not only released something that was too powerful for her to control," Teresa continues, "which was bad enough, but something no one could identify, so we had no idea the full range of what it could do, it's vulnerabilities, how to control it, where to send it back to, or if we even could.  That left killing it, and that--that really didn't work.  We damaged it, yes, but it was like the walking dead or something; it kept on keeping on before it vanished to destroy somewhere else another day.  Mama said it was down to thirty-six hours between attacks near the end."
That explains a lot.  "I remember…." Dean pauses, thinking hard and hey, that actually works.  "I remember that nothing I tried worked the one and only time I managed to get there before it vanished.  Like it didn't even notice me."
"You were creative, too," she says. "You impressed Mama, by the way.  The only thing we thought would work--and thought being the key word here--was to burn out its power all at once."
"If it wasn't from this plane, that would effectively kill it, at least so far as its existence on this plane would be concerned," Cas tells the table, probably for his (and from the way her expression clears, Alison's) benefit.  "It takes a great deal of power to move between planes of reality, much less retain any kind of workable form in one that isn't native to the entity; it would be eons before it could hope to gain enough power to return, and something in its native habitat would surely kill it before that."
Teresa nods.  "That was the idea. From everything we tried and after running a few tests, we worked out that we'd have about a minute and change to burn it out before it could get away or kill us. Power wasn't a problem--Mama could have done it herself--but like I said, there are limits on how much one witch can channel, much less release, and no one could channel that much at once but maybe a god.  So using basic division, they worked out that would take at least five full witches in physical proximity to it all working together and that was bare bones."
Dean nods; this almost sounds familiar.  "And there weren't enough."
"There were four available; my mother, my aunt Juana, and two of my cousins, Luisa and Veronica," Teresa says.  "At the time, we were spread out, which was also part of the reason that Mariana hadn't been judged, burned out, and executed immediately; a couple were checking disturbances on the Nevada border, a third of us were on assignment in central and southern Mexico, a few more were traveling in Central America doing research, and me and Manuel were both training new hunters from among the apprentices far enough along to start them on the basics.  While Manuel was giving them a survival course, I went on a job involving fae, which is generally the purview of witches of pretty much any tradition, not regular hunters." She makes a face.  "God, I hate jobs involving the fae."
"Tell me about it," Dean mutters, trying not to think of what Cas said about the fae courts, and meets Teresa's eyes in a moment of shared sympathy.  "So they needed another full witch or two.  On a guess, not something the apprentices can do."
"No, never.  And none of the apprentices were anywhere near ready to make the offering. Zena was strong and was finishing her third year work while on leave from Legal Aid, but even if she'd been farther along, no one wanted any of the apprentices to risk an offering before their thirtieth birthday if there was any other choice," Teresa answers.  "Then you showed up, and Zena--after confirming with commendable thoroughness your intentions and what you were--thought we should consult with a friendly hunter."
He's not flushing; it's kind of hot in here, though. "Not something you would risk normally." Even then, he appreciated how much trust they were offering him just by talking to him. 
"Especially not someone with the name 'Winchester'," Teresa adds unexpectedly, which depressingly doesn't surprise him at all; he can imagine Dad's reputation with good witches (he didn't believe in them).  "But your name wasn't 'John', and considering you were the best hunter in memory--it was worth trying."
Christ, they really need to turn down that heater or something.  "Right," he says quickly, wondering who their source was and how drunk the guy was. "Then--you found out I couldn't help and…what?"
"That's where this gets complicated."  Teresa taps lightly on the table, thinking.  "The earth wanted to meet you.  That part isn't unusual, actually," she adds quickly, seeing Dean's expression.  "We don't get a lot of outsiders, so she was interested in a friendly human among us that she didn't know.  Generally, we say no unless there's a very good reason to allow it; for one, the earth is the earth and no one is really ready for that, and two, secrecy was something of a habit and 'talking to the earth' is generally something people talk about.  Sure, not a lot of people would believe them, but the ones who would were also the most likely be those we'd prefer couldn't find us.  In this case, however, the second wouldn't be a problem; you were a hunter and understood why even remembering that much could be dangerous, for us and for you, and therefore could give us full and knowing consent to make changes to your memory afterward.  Altering memory is something we're trained to do, but generally, anything that has to do with the fundamentals of identity--memory, will, emotion--we do through the earth if at all possible.  Like Cas, the earth--well, it can't make mistakes, at least when it comes to anything in relation to work on her behalf."
So far so good.  "Okay."
"For the first: Mama didn't say as much, but I think--you told her you wanted to talk to it, which I assume means Zena told you it had made the request." He doesn't need to remember (yet) to have the definite impression of, probably, yeah.  "It was remote but possible either you'd try on your own--which probably wouldn't work but stranger things had happened--or that Zena would take you herself."
Okay, no.  "I wouldn't have made her--"
"Dean, she's my cousin; you aren't the problem in this scenario," Teresa says wryly. "We're all lucky she didn't drag you into the garden the second you said you wanted to do it; she does shit like that.  So, better to have a full witch do the introductions; while it's doubtful anything would occur that Zena couldn't handle, there was no reason to take the risk.  Of course, your full consent was required first, after an explanation of the benefits and especially the risks," she adds.  "But when Mama was done, you said yes.  No hesitation. She had to go on faith you actually listened to a word she said."
Twenty-three is always immortal.  On a guess, he didn't hear a word; it's just stupid enough that he knows that's exactly how it happened, no memory required.  His twenties had a lot of that shit.  "I paid attention," he lies with no faith anyone will believe it, but Teresa has the decency to hide her grin behind a businesslike nod.  "Then what happened?"
"When she took you out that night, she'd already explained to the earth who you were and why you were here and that when you'd helped us finish handling the problem we were having on the border, you'd be leaving," she continues.  "It wasn't the first time we'd introduced an outsider, as I said, just rare.  And almost always, those were people planning to stay, either as apprentices or marrying into the family."
"She was worried, though," he says, remembering the dream. "I remember that.  I mean, I think I do."
"Dealing with the earth personally is always dangerous," Teresa says soberly.  "The risk was low, but there was still a risk.  The earth wouldn't deliberately hurt someone other than in its own defense, but it's…."
"The earth," he says in resignation. "Which is old, powerful, and understands only earth."
"Exactly.  We're strict traditionalists and that means formalists; a formal circle and ritual bloodshed are always a thing when making a formal petition, from apprentices to those who already made the offering," she continues.  "Mama drew the circle, blooded the knife and--woke up to you passed out beside her four hours later.  She thought you were dead at first--and took five years off her life, she always claimed--but then you woke up and…." She trails off with a complicated expression
"And?"
"The earth said it had accepted your offering," Teresa says in a strange voice before she starts to grin.  "Which was something of a shock, but at least somewhat explained why you were a living, breathing Babel tower of every language we spoke when you opened your mouth."
He has so many questions but only one manages to make it out.  "The earth can do that?"
"It retains the knowledge of everyone who's offered to it," Teresa says. "That's how we retain fluency in languages no one's spoken in millennia and other things that can't easily be passed down without corruption, especially anything related to strict ritual magic.  Generally, we're instructed in the basics of each language so the language centers of our brain are developed and we're ready, more or less.  You, not so much,"  She sits back.  "Mama thought she didn't explain correctly, mostly from the sheer lack of any reasonable explanation, but--seriously, it knew you weren't there for that, come on." Teresa pauses, gaze distant, before she rolls her eyes.  "And the earth remains silent on the subject.  What a goddamn surprise."
Yeah, that's not even in the weird zone anymore, fuck his life.  "So why do you think it--did that?"
"I had two questions when Mama told me what went down, and that was the first," Teresa answers.  "My second was why you willingly agreed to conditions no one--and I do mean no one--would agree to without a lot more thought just to stop that thing on the border.  When I met you, I found out those two questions were related, and that they may have the same answer."
"Uh." Yeah, he's got nothing. "What?"
"Why did you agree to help us, Dean?" she asks. "Everything you knew about witches had a start value of bad and only got worse from there.  You're John Winchester's son, and he taught you the supernatural was for killing, and that included humans who didn't conform to the norm. You voluntarily met with a coven of witches--Latina witches, one of whom deceived you for several days, though from what I heard she went above and beyond making it up to you--"
"Oh God," Dean breathes in horror; no malfunctioning heater could explain how he feels right now.
"--and you didn't just agree to help; you volunteered well before you were actually reassured of what we were.  Why?"
Because he saw the places that thing went, the people it killed--and worse, the people that survived for longer than they should have had to.  "It had to be stopped."
"And you were willing to do anything to make that happen," Teresa says knowingly.
"Like you wouldn't have done the same damn thing," he retorts. "If you had to, you'd have dealt with Dad to stop something like that when you were on the migrant circuit.  Trust me, Constanza and the others could have been evil, and I still would have gotten the better deal there."
Teresa stares at him challengingly, then sits back, a smile playing around her mouth.  "That's why I know what happened in the garden that night," she says.  "You wanted to stop that thing so much that I think the earth took it as terms;: yourself, whole and entire, for the ability to do that."
"And I agreed to do that?" he asks, trying for incredulous, but he was exactly that stupid at twenty-three.
"Dean," Teresa says slowly, "that is literally the least surprising part of anything that happened. I worked out that much the first time we met.  You're right, I would have done the same thing--or rather, walked up to John Winchester and offered my services, no fucks given."  Dean glares at her, but it doesn't last much past the sheer horror of what never happened, thank God. "What I wasn’t sure of was why the earth went with it.  You weren't an apprentice, it met you that day, and the earth isn't stupid, it knew what was going on.  No, it did it on purpose, and Mama must have felt--something--when you completed the circle and it knocked her out before she could break it.  Generally, we also don't fall unconscious during ritual magic.  That's really a big no."
Right.  "No idea why?"
"Many, but…." She shakes her head.  "I don’t think it originally meant anything but get to know you a little more thoroughly than Mama would ever have allowed.  It was curious, so instead of trying to get Mama to agree--or more importantly, not break the circle--she put Mama to sleep to give herself some time to work out what you were and why you were there.  It's fascinated by people--new apprentices always get a great deal of attention at first, it can be disconcerting until you get used to it--and you were very new." She pauses, thinking for a moment.  "The earth is the earth everywhere, but where I’m from, it's aware to all of us; it feels our birth, it's beneath our feet when we take our first steps and play outside, it's there to observe puberty, our first love, our marriages, childbirth, our joys and our griefs, and it's there when we die.  Even those who don't apprentice or make the offering, it knows them and they sense it.  You, though--you were born and took your first steps and lived your life outside its awareness; you were new, and it wanted to know you.  I don't think it occurred to Mama or anyone else the earth would react like that, which I assume meant at that point, they'd forgotten that you being with us at all was actually pretty weird.  Like I said, outsiders are almost always apprentices or about to marry into the family."
"Probably because he was babysitting baby witches," Alison says in malicious satisfaction.  "You were, weren't you?  Were you hunting them down five minutes after you arrived?"
"It was summer," Dean answers defensively. "No school to distract 'em, and most of their parents were working on important shit like killing the monster.  Not much I could help with, so Zena and I took them to the park for a couple of hours."
"Made them lunch, got them to nap, and apparently oversaw epic Chutes and Ladders tournaments in the afternoon," Teresa says, which really wasn't necessary here, then Dean sees that distant look return.  "The earth asked to see you, Dean; you gave it everything you were.  You didn't know how to do less."  She shakes herself, blinking at Dean.  "That's--in essence, the offering."
"It didn't," Cas says flatly, "have to take it."
"It did if it worked out the other reason Dean was motivated to talk to the earth.  The danger on the border was a big part, but there was something way more immediate, probably right on top of his mind;  Zena was going to try to make the offering, possibly that night," Teresa says, and Dean stills.  "That was it, wasn't it?"
His expression probably says it all. He can't remember it, exactly, but--.  "There had to be five witches," he says slowly. "That was the one part everyone agreed on.  Or--maybe four and someone--anyone--the earth could use in place of the fifth to channel power."  He feels himself flush under Teresa's gaze. "The earth would know, right? No way to know unless I asked."
"Yeah," she says softly.  "Your Spanish for tourists was better than Zena thought; how did you find out she was at risk if she tried?  They wouldn't have talked about it in front of you.  And for that matter, how'd you figure out she planned to make the offering?"
"She got really quiet, and Zena--you know her, she's never quiet," Dean says automatically; it's not quite a memory yet, just feelings: fear and dread, yeah, but more immediately, the bone-deep worry.  "Everyone was worried, yeah, but when they looked at her--they watched her, especially when she wasn't with me." In retrospect, it's not unlikely they might have also kept him around because he was distracting Zena, which is weird enough to be sort of flattering.  The families of the few girlfriends he had when he was growing up had been very obviously polite to the definitely bad influence in their daughter's life at best;  Zena's family, on the other hand, may have thought how awesome it was he was keeping her out of trouble with (really good) sex and babysitting in the park.  "I didn't get what the offering was--not really--but whatever it was, it had something to do with her talking to the earth, and they really didn't want her to do it." There'd also been the spectacular sex the night before, like it was the last night of her life, and he could recognize that from a mile away; that, he always remembered, but now he's got context.  
He remembers how bright she was, way too smart to be wasting time with him, but he wasn't stupid enough to argue the point.  She was ready to take on the world, a brand new lawyer who'd just passed the bar and was on leave from her first job at Legal Aid to learn another way to save the world.  Her family had been huge--parents, brothers and sisters, uncles, aunts, cousins, only some by blood, but no one really remembered or cared, and so many kids even he (almost) lost count.  Sure, they were witches--or related to them, whatever--but by then, he couldn't really remember why it mattered.  They weren't like any hunters he'd ever met, sure, but they were still hunters (and possibly better at it than most he'd met), just with a few extras thrown in for the hell of it.  He'd known just looking at her that she was going to do something stupid and dangerous to stop that thing; it was like looking at himself.  And from experience, there aren't a lot of ways to stop someone like that.  Doing whatever it was Constanza was talking about with the earth--that he wasn't sure he even believed in--would have been an automatic 'yes' on concept if there was any chance it wasn't bullshit.  They'd lost so many on the border to that thing, family and friends and neighbors, and Constanza and the others took that as personally as he did on a job; he didn't want them to lose any more, lose Zena, not if there was any way to avoid it.  He couldn’t let her take that risk--and her family take it along with her--when he was right there and could do it; the only risk would be to himself.  
"Okay, so got that," he says quickly, not seeing any reason to linger on reasons--he was young and really stupid, they're all agreed there, "but--how did I survive? I had no idea what I was doing!"
"The same reason Teresa did despite her extreme youth," Cas answers.  "The same reason anyone survives the offering; you offered it everything without hesitation, without exception, for something you considered so much greater than yourself that the price was nothing in comparison.  Training does help one to do that, yes, but in its absence, there are other forms of motivation that will do very well, and both of you were very motivated indeed."
Teresa grins suddenly.  "And Dean became the one hundred and ninety-eighth youngest to survive the offering in our history," she says. "Good job." Dean's still absorbing that when she adds, "A couple of days for you to recover and adjust--no attacks on people, according to Mama, just some empty buildings--and some instruction on what to do--short version, do exactly what Mama said--and Mama's plan worked.
"With this development, one--very big--problem was solved, but it gave us another, which turned out to be surprisingly easy to deal with," she continues, playing with her cup.  "The earth couldn't, or wouldn't, reject you--and to be fair, I'm not sure there even is a way short of a violation meriting death--but as it turns out, the removal of your memories would do something similar.  While the binding would remain unchanged, the active connection would be severed when those memories were removed from your linear memory.  You'd forget, and it would ignore you unless and until you were brought to its attention.  For you, it would effectively be the same as if it hadn't happened.  Even better, the binding meant that altering your memory would be much easier, quicker, and not nearly as invasive or extensive; what didn't absolutely need to be removed was--smudged.  For the rest: a simple time-limited compulsion could make it so you simply didn't think about what happened in Laredo too much, and by the time it wore off, the brain itself would continue doing it from sheer habit."  She pauses, searching his face, then says, way too quickly, "What you learned about us--how we do our work--it wasn't taken because we didn't trust you or because you were an outsider--"
"No, that part, I get," he interrupts.  "Knowledge is power, and just knowing some of it--if I got desperate, I could fuck shit up badly." It's not like he hasn't done that pretty thoroughly without access to way too much power.
"That, yes," she agrees.  "But not really.  Mostly--you're a hunter, like us.  Mama and the others could guess what it would do to you to know you could do something and--didn't." Surprised, Dean looks at her.  "How could we give you an arsenal, half the knowledge on how to use it, and then make you promise to pretend it wasn't there?  No one could do that and remain sane.; I know I couldn't do it.  We never doubted you'd keep your promise, Dean; what we doubted was that you wouldn’t be destroyed in the keeping of it."
Dean swallows; she has more faith in him than he's ever had in himself. "For the record, I'd do the same thing now."  Then he pauses, abruptly wary.  "Uh, the earth--it released me from my promise?  It's--giving my memories back?" She nods, watching him.  "Which memories?"
"Yours, everything that you--oh. You mean what you learned to do?" She sits back, thoughtful. "What Mama or any of the others taught you directly, yes, but most of it, if I remember correctly, was learning how to be a passive vessel, which believe it or not is actually much harder than anything active.  The rest that came from the earth--probably to give you context on what Mama was telling you--wasn't learned, so I doubt it." He almost has time to be relieved when she asks, "Speaking of, how often have you spoken Spanish since you were in Laredo?"
"Uh, never?  Maybe in Mexican restaurants or you know, maybe a couple of jobs in the southwest when…." He pauses at her amused expression.  "Five jobs I can remember right now: three in Arizona, one in southern California with some day laborers that no one would listen to, one in New Mexico.  And conversational Spanish with Kamal, yeah.  So he could practice the border dialect with someone...I told him I didn't know anything but still did it, wow."  Alison giggles, but Teresa thankfully restrains herself, though her mouth is twitching suspiciously. "How the hell did I miss that?"
"Language acquisition is different; unlike magic, we all have brain real estate that is devoted exclusively to nothing but learning, retaining, and using language," she says, still fighting back a grin.  "Even Alison, though accessing it requires non-standard techniques," she adds with innocent malice, and Alison starts to open her mouth before closing it with a finality that means she's willing to wait.  "When we met in Ichabod, your Spanish was pretty fluent but also very Midwestern: normal for someone speaking a second language that they know but don't get to use very often.  Though really, oreo?"  Dean ignores that because seriously, everyone move on already. "Last time I heard you speak it, however, it was colloquial; some Valley-specific grammar and syntax quirks, complex vocabulary with context-appropriate slang…you sounded like you grew up bilingual in the Valley, likely Laredo, probably next door."  She suddenly looks mischievous.  "I also may have spoken to you in Spanish a few times, just to check."
"How many times?"
"Constantly when Cas wasn't around," she says, darting a glance at Cas.  "Sorry. I was curious and didn't want to explain why or risk you might tell him."
"I have no objections," Cas says, straight faced, because he's like this.  "There's no other way you could test his language retention and use that as a baseline for what else he may unknowingly still know how to do without contaminating the experiment."
After attempting (and failing) to glare at them both, he gives up; it's just way too rare that the side effects from shit he thought was a good idea to do in his twenties isn't horrifying that he's not wasting the opportunity to relax.  "So, that's all?" Teresa nods, mouth softening like she knows what he's thinking, probably because her twenties has a few of those, too. "Not a problem."  Really useful, even, especially in Ichabod.
"It's pretty useful with the three most common languages here being English, Spanish, and Hindi," she agrees.  "Since acquiring Spanish was both earth-assisted and the natural result of living on the border with bilingual native speakers, if you keep using it regularly now, you should become mother-tongue fluent.  And a request: keep your current accent, please God.  The Midwest does things to vowels that should be illegal.  Thinking about it," she adds thoughtfully, "it's not really surprising you kept so much, even if you didn't notice.  The entire time you were on the border, you used it constantly, and my family generally speaks both at home.  It might have been more trouble than it was worth trying to make your brain ignore an active language that at that point, you were using more frequently than English ."
"I agree," Cas says.  "When he arrived on the border and began actively attempting to communicate with others in their tongue, he would have acquired the beginnings of a working structure; the earth only expanded what was already there, granted exponentially, and due to the means by which he acquired it, there was no potential for any significant degradation.  From what I understand, your mother--and the earth--only did the minimum required to achieve their goal with Dean's memory; why bother removing an entire language?  Spanish is an extremely common second language for someone to have in the United States, so no one would question it if he spoke it.  Even if Dean noticed or thought to question his fluency --and noticeably, he did neither at any point in his life, even while speaking it with you and Kamal for several hours on multiple days--he would put up to 'learned for a job on the border', and for that matter, a job he was in the habit of not thinking about."
Everyone looks satisfied by that explanation, and he can't actually argue it's entirely--or in any way--wrong.  Time to move the fuck on. Though that thing with Kamal and Teresa is gonna haunt him. "So--what it did tonight…." He has no idea how to ask this.
"Honestly?  I'm not sure what's up with that." Teresa frowns, eyes distant for a moment.  "If you were a full witch, an offering--especially two apprentices doing it at the same time--would definitely have gotten your attention, but otherwise…."  She shakes her head ruefully.  "No idea. The binding's not active, in any case."
"The feeling--of being encased in earth and all that?  That's the earth?"  Teresa nods, and okay, that explains something else.  "Yeah.  It--I think it happened before."
Teresa nods.  "Yes, during your offering--"
"Three days ago."  He doesn't need to look at Cas to feel the abrupt focus as Teresa straightens, and great, now he's sitting at a table with a living, breathing natural disaster (all of them) and a pissed off cosmic force of divine justice who is way too armed for this early in the morning.  Even Alison's glaring at him, what the hell?  "I mean," he tries, even though with these odds, he's pretty much doomed to failure, "something happened and it was--kind of like…that."
"Three days ago, you had contact with the earth," Cas says calmly while somewhere, a red giant just went supernova with prejudice.  "I don't remember you informing me of that. Doubtless such a minor event simply slipped your mind."
Okay, no.  "I didn't--I mean, I thought--" In retrospect, the only honest way to finish that is '--I would pretend it didn't happen and forget about it' which actually, until now, had actually been working pretty well.  On a guess, that won't help even a little.  "The day the Croats attacked."  He closes his eyes--totally not to avoid looking at Cas (or Teresa.  Or Alison, fuck it)--and thinks.  "Alicia had just come back from checking Alpha, I told everyone to get behind the ward line, and when they were all across--when I crossed it, I--felt something. Like what I felt before I woke up."
When the silence goes too long, he makes himself open his eyes and yeah, they're all still staring at him, like he did it deliberately just to fuck with them.
"Look, a lot happened," he starts defensively into a silence where 'ominous' would be an improvement.  "Croats, Erica, A--you know, almost dying!  Shit happened, okay!  It wasn't--didn't seem," he corrects himself when Cas's eyebrow twitches, just a little, "important.  Compared to everything else."
After the equivalent of the Jurassic era passes, Cas says, "And this--comparatively unimportant event--felt like being buried alive." Dean makes himself nod. "Nothing else?"
"No," he starts, then stops, because actually….  "Maybe.  It was like something--something really, really big--was…there.  With me, I mean.  It--it felt like it knew me or something."
"Knew you," Cas repeats flatly, then focuses on Teresa.  "The day of the Croatoan attack: that was the first test of the new wards you anchored to the wall."
"Wait, are you trying to say this is my fault?" Teresa asks, straightening, and Dean lets himself relax, just a little. "Because I added new wards to the walls?"
"I didn't say it was your fault," Cas answers, which was true, since he'd only been totally fucking implying that.  "I simply cannot help but marvel at the coincidence."
"Do you?" Teresa asks sweetly, and Dean tosses a wary glance at Alison and sees her struggling not to smile.  Meeting his eyes, she slips into a grin before catching herself, and Dean suddenly remembers the night when they came to Ichabod after visiting the church and their so-reasonable significant others tossed them under the bus when he and Alison were just having a little disagreement, no biggie.  
"Surely an acolyte of your presumed skill--" Oh, presumed skill, those are fighting words, "--would have some basic awareness of the earth's intentions.  It's not as if it's difficult."
"You think that I--" Teresa starts, then Alison makes a choking sound, and Teresa and Cas both stare at her as she very deliberately and maliciously starts to laugh.  Dean doesn't bother to muffle his snicker, taking another drink from his cup.  "What?"
"You two need a few minutes?" Dean asks curiously, starting to enjoy himself; it's not been a great deal so far, and he'll take what he can get.  "Me and Alison can go get some breakfast--mess should be open.  Chitaqua's, anyway.  We could bring you back some tea."
"Why not?" Alison asks, enjoying herself just as much as Dean is. "Not like anything important is happening today."
Teresa and Cas look at each other, and no, he doesn't miss the way Cas rolls his eyes and Teresa's answering slight nod.  "Perhaps," he says (to Teresa, very obviously), "the earth simply hadn't actively noticed him before then; his offering wasn't done here, after all, and without a formal introduction, she would have no reason to pay him specific attention.  There are so many people in Ichabod, and the sheer number entering--not to mention Sudha's labor and your efforts to protect the town--
"And the walls appearing out of nowhere," Dean hears himself say, knowing better and still regretting nothing,  "No way she could miss that shit."
"--would have taken a great deal of her attention," Cas continues in the same voice without so much as a change in expression because he spent two years at Chitaqua learning every possible way to be as fucking annoying as possible in any kind of meeting or gathering of greater than two people where sex wasn't involved (and probably sometimes even when it was).  "The wards were new, and when they activated during the Croatoan attack, there were very few outside the walls native to Ichabod, but Dean, she'd recognize at least as a familiar presence.  Once he had her attention, she'd be able to sense the former binding fairly easily and access the memory of the events that led to it in Laredo." Cas tilts his head.  "That's far more proactive than the earth usually is, but I've noticed she's somewhat different here.  Under the circumstances, she may have simply considered it polite."
"What does that mean?" Dean demands.  "Why did it matter--" He stops short as Cas looks at him, mouth twitching, and even weirder, Teresa sits back, looking surprised and if he's right, amused.  "What?"
"Seriously," Alison says.  "What the hell?"
"Just say it," Dean starts, then Cas meets his eyes, and all at once, he remembers that night at Chitaqua's walls and standing in a pool of living light: oh.  "You're fucking with me."  Alison looks close to giving up on verbal encouragement and makes himself say it  "Uh. This may sound crazy, but I think--I think maybe it was saying hi."
Emerging into the early morning air, Dean obediently follows Teresa into the garden, leaving Alison and Cas to do whatever it is they do when not engaged in psychic lessons or competitive sarcasm.  Belatedly, it occurs to him that maybe he and Teresa should try and find out.  It's not that he's worried exactly, but he feels like he should probably be working on 'concerned'.  With the Apocalypse still in progress, nothing they could possibly do would even rate 'catastrophe', which is pretty depressing when you think about it, but there are a lot of levels below catastrophe they could be exploring and as their partners, he and Teresa will end up there with them one way or another.  Cas and Alison have the exact same sense of humor, so yeah, they may just be spending their time discovering entirely unexplored vistas of sarcasm and making weird jokes that make even less sense than the punchline, and that's when there is one (assuming he even recognizes it, which considering who he's talking about, he can't take as a given), but he just doesn't think that's all.
(And what the hell are sheepapodes?)
"Okay, so what--" He stops short when Teresa abruptly sits down on a clear piece of ground among the pepper plants, spindly limbs wrapped firmly around the thin frames Mercedes had designed.  Belatedly, he realizes neither of them are wearing their coats and Teresa's just wearing slippers. "Uh, shouldn't we get our coats?"
"It's fine," she says, smiling up at him, and Dean realizes that actually, he's not cold. "Part of my training; I can equalize with the weather. No other way a witch could tend the fields no matter the season.  I can't do it for more than a few hours," she adds.  "Yet, anyway.  It takes a lot of attention.  I can teach you how to do it yourself, but the earth is handling it for now.  Sit."
"It's doing--you know, never mind."  He sits down across from her, horribly aware this should feel so much sketchier than it does.  "Uh," he starts, but her smile is impossible to resist, like this is--he's actually not sure. "Okay, what are we doing again?"
"Nothing too weird," she assures him.  "My best guess is she wants to talk to you, and well--she made you a promise as well.  You didn't release her, so the best way for her to contact you and still satisfy the requirements of consent is to go through me. Better than another dream."
No shit.  "'She'." Teresa cocks her head. "You use 'it', sometimes, or 'they'. Is there a difference or is it random?"
"Context," she explains, switching smoothly to Spanish.  "The earth is singular and plural; all genders and none, and no concept of gender at all, and that's just how it's expressed in English and Spanish; it changes depending on the language.  It's not random, but which she selects at any given time is at her discretion. I don't always understand why, so I just go with what she prefers." Shifting so their knees touch, she holds out her hands, palms up, in what is unmistakably an order--it reminds him of Constanza instructing Zena one day, come to think--and automatically, he places his in hers.  "Relax.  Teaching Alison how to interact with the earth taught me a lot about how to minimize the drama.  Ichabod's been educational," she adds.  "We always took as literal scripture that it was dangerous for people to be introduced to the earth, and yes, it is, but it may not have to be.  I think it may just be a matter of acolytes learning how to do it safely."
He files that away for later thought, replying in the same language, "So what she's been doing so far--I mean with me…."
"That's what we're going to find out." Teresa answers.  "I know this is a little late, but I was planning to talk to you about what happened in Laredo, and I don't mean 'someday in the far future' but 'maybe between New Year's Alliance meetings'."
"Why?"
"The reason for your promise--it really doesn't exist anymore," she answers. "I'm not convinced it was the right choice then, but no one else was either, and at the time…."
"It was," he assures her. "Now what are we doing now?"
Her hands suddenly tighten around his, skin like warm sand and running water, calluses like stones, and the too-vivid memories of burial in solid earth and being unable to breathe fade, replaced with the thin, cold air at the peak of a mountain, surrounded by open sky; that's the earth, too.  He's standing up to his ankles in a bubbling brook, breathing evergreens in a quiet forest; the scorching heat of the open desert closes around him, the heat of the sun beating on the back of his neck; there's miles of ice around him, cold air filling his lungs with every breath as polar bears swimming among ice floes nearby; crouching on the edge of Varkala Cliff in southern India with the taste of salt in his mouth, the Arabian Sea spread out before him; South Padre at night, the beach brilliant with lights from the hundreds of houses and hotels lining the shores of the Gulf of Mexico; he's in Constanza's garden with a dozen kids ten and under, playing tag under the early morning sun; and finally, he's in the familiar warmth of late spring in Kansas, fields of corn that spread out forever.
He opens his eyes, breathless, and Teresa lets go of his hands, smile bright, but the brown eyes are wet. "What--what was that?"
"The context--the earth burying you--she had no idea it would be unpleasant, much less how Cas would react," she answers, wiping her eyes.  "She thought these would be better."
"Much, thanks," he agrees, the once-vivid memory stripped down to a shadow; he remembers it, sure, but not how it felt, and hopefully, that means Cas won't, either.  "Is it--is that what it's always like for you?"  She nods, a little dreamy, and he fights down a stupid sense of--envy?  What the hell is wrong with him?  "How the hell do you get anything done and not just--commune or whatever?" he bursts out before he can stop himself.
Teresa blinks, then starts to laugh, and Dean hopes to God he's not flushing.
"You get used to it," she explains breathlessly, which okay?  You can get used to that?  "Besides, here's pretty great, too.  Fresh air.  Horseback riding.  Chocolate." She grins.  "Alison."
Fair enough.
"Just now, though--with you--it was almost like being back in Laredo," she continues.  "Ichabod is my home now, don't get me wrong, but my history starts there.  Everyone here I teach--their history will be here, and it should be. But you made the offering on the border, like I did.  Until now,  there was no one of my tradition here but Manuel, and he hasn't made the offering."  She leans back, smile fading as she looks at him.  "What they did--we did to you, and yes, I know it was with your permission--it wasn't personal.  It wasn't--we weren't just using you and throwing you back when we were done."
"I never thought they were just using me," he says, horrified she might think that, that he might have given her a reason to. "I volunteered, okay?  It was a job.  I didn't--you know--expect anything from them.  I was there to help them, not the other way around.  Still surprised they trusted me that much.
Teresa cocks her head. "You mean that."
"Well, yeah," he says in surprise.  "I was a gringo, and I wasn't even from the Valley, much less Laredo.  Or even Texas. I didn't know anything about you before that thing happened.  Hell, I wouldn't have even been there if--"
"--you hadn't been in Las Cruces and heard a rumor in a bar about a monster in Laredo," she says.  "How many hunters heard that rumor, Dean?  I know that bar; I used it.  You were the only one that came to see what you could do to help.  You didn't know the area--for God's sake, you're from the Midwest, your knowledge of the border is Taco Bell, which yes, I love it too, but seriously--and when you got there and no one spoke English, you got a book of tourist Spanish to try to talk to people.  And despite what was probably some serious discouragement, persisted to the point that half the town was talking about the weird gringo who was totally not a border guard but if he was in the store and you pretended not to have money, would buy you all the candy you want."
Jesus.  "Okay, not all the candy." 
"Under twelve, you're putty," she says, which fine, she's not wrong. 
"It was my job," Dean says desperately. "Monsters, I kill them or get rid of them.  The place doesn't matter; the people do."
"You believe that," she says.  "Not many do.  People can fake anything, but we always know the difference."  She sighs, sitting back.  "When we talked a few weeks ago, I was trying to find out what you remembered.  I was also trying to decide whether I should approach you about what you did in Laredo and tell you what happened. I wanted to, don't get me wrong, but that was the problem; I couldn’t be sure it was also the right thing to do, for the earth, Ichabod, or you."
He nods.  "I'm not pissed about that," he assures her.  "Seriously, I knew going in what I was doing and why."
"I know, but this changes things. Or could," she adds, frowning for a moment.  "That part's up to you."
"What part?"
"The earth wanted me to bring you out here so it could fix what hurt you and Cas when you dreamed of the offering tonight," she says.  "She would also like you to release her from her promise to you."
The first, okay, cool, but the second…. "What does that mean?"
"She'd like to be able to talk to you, if you're willing to hear her," Teresa says, sounding distracted.  She takes a deep breath.  "I have a request, however.  From me: no mystical contract or anything, just something I'd like you to think about."
Only Teresa could manage not to make that sound as ominous as he's fairly sure it should be.  "Sure, what?
"I'd like you to consider taking up your apprenticeship under me."
Honest to God, he so didn't see that coming.  "My what?"
"Not that you really had one, but close enough," she adds.  "That's the new part.  I'd only planned to talk to you, give you some context on what happened, but now…honestly, I think that eventually I would have considered asking you anyway.  It makes sense the more I think about it."
Dean stares at her wordlessly.
"I get this is a lot to absorb," she says reassuringly because understatement, "but here's something to think about.  The world before all this?  We're never getting it back.  Even assuming we win on all fronts, too much has changed."
Yeah.  "I know."
"You and I know the monsters have always been under the bed and in the closet, that it took generations of people like us to get them there and even more to keep them there.  We can't anymore; there aren't enough of us and there won't be, not for generations.  And some things…." She makes a face.  "Some things, we may not have the right to drive out again, assuming we even can."
He already hates where this is going.  "You're saying the world is going to need more witches."
"Everyone is going to need to know the basics of hunting and magic; that's a given.  We're also going to need more hunters by avocation--which you already know--and more formal practitioners of all traditions that work on the side of humanity, not exploit it," she answers. "In the entire Alliance, there are ten experienced practitioners and their twenty-two apprentices between us, and we need ten times that at minimum to handle the new world order, and that's just in the Alliance itself.  We're recruiting apprentices as quickly as we can handle them, but that's not easy, since up until recently, no one even knew we existed, and now, the number is only slightly higher."
"Right, I get that," he agrees.  "But--"
"Dean, remember what you thought of witches before Mama?"
Oh, that "Yeah. But--"
"Even among those who know about witches, we don't have the best reputation," she says.  "Now, people can't just know about us; they have to trust us.  They need to be willing to call us when needed, and those with potential need to come to us for formal training.  What's happening in Ichabod now with the geas: that's just a taste of what we're going to be dealing with: desperate people who find a way to get power and fuck everything up in the process."
"And people who want power just to fuck shit up," he says, and Teresa nods soberly. "And aren't picky how they get it, either."
"Exactly. Ichabod trusts me, but we've had two years and change, a lack of famine in our lives, and Manuel and I run patrol, so they've seen me fight; they don't just know what I am but know me.  In the Alliance, the mayors, the farm leads--they know I’m a witch, but the rest…Alison may have insisted on discretion, but it's not like I argued the point much."
Crap, he didn't even think of that.  He stares at her, wanting to deny it, but come on; it's one thing for the leader of Chitaqua to say he trusts her (and witches in general), but it's another for him to show it.  Even in Chitaqua, he can't be sure there isn't some prejudice, possibly from the other Dean if not experience, and Cas probably hadn't thought about adding a special class in 'why witches are awesome'.  
Then he realizes something. "I'm Ichabod."  At her raised eyebrow, he adds, "Alison volunteered Ichabod as the guinea pig for the Alliance."
Teresa grins. "You got it."
That's actually fair.  A better deal than Ichabod got; he knows Teresa, the earth itself confirms what she is, but Alison couldn't even read him and was going on faith.  "It's not like they know and trust us much more, but...magic."
"Magic makes everything sketchier," she agrees.  "I'm not saying it'll change everyone's minds, but it's a place to start. It's not like Chitaqua hasn't earned some serious props the last few days.  We can use that."
She's not wrong; it's not that Chitaqua is that much better know and trusted, they're just impressive and comfortingly mundane compared to witches.  If he agrees, though, they'd have a de facto link with Teresa and the other witches and practitioners.  Chitaqua needs to be trusted to do their job, that's what he's trying to make happen; as a bonus, they trust they earn would also be available to Teresa and hopefully the oothers, for whom getting trust will always, always be a lot harder.
"That's not all, though," Teresa says suddenly.  "It's also--personal."
"What?"
"Mama didn't send you away because they were done with you, Dean," she says.  "Outsiders are always welcome--seriously, that inbreeding shit left scars--and we have more than one gringo that stumbled into our world by sheer accident; the earth calls who it calls.  They let you go because they thought you wanted to go.  That doesn't mean they actually wanted to."
Dean tries to take that in, but it just doesn't compute.
"Taking your memory and letting you leave--it was hard for them, Mama especially," she continues.  "You were there three months, Dean; they knew you.  And not just as a hunter still willing to listen and learn from others, who was willing to change their mind, who didn't insist they already knew best--"
"You actually met Dad," Dean realizes, calm with horror; it's weird how right now, Teresa has the same expression Amanda had when talking about John Winchester. Come to think, a lot of people have had that look over the years, which is why it's so familiar.
"Once, when I started working the migrant circuit," she answers grimly.  "I'll tell you about that sometime, but not until we're drunk."
"Fair enough." Jesus, Dad, way to make friends literally no where.  She really should have dropped him down an earth-created hole for a few minutes; probably wouldn't have helped his attitude, but she'd at least have gotten some satisfaction out of it.  "I'll bring the Eldritch Horror."  Then, unable to stop himself.  "Why--why Constanza especially?  I mean, she was great.  Really great, seriously."  She was, and that was before he started to sense those other memories.  Not like a mother, but maybe a cross between a favorite aunt and Bobby, the kind of person you can go to for advice and who tells you you're an idiot when you need to hear it, who always has a place for you to sleep and puts you on dishwashing rotation the next morning and expects you to help with the laundry and watch the kids for a couple of hours while she takes a break.  Outside the threat of annihilation, his time in Laredo had been great, and the more he remembers, the more he realizes just how great it really was.
"It was through her that the earth met you," she explains.  "That's the formal beginning of apprenticeship and it creates a bond--I mean that both metaphorically and literally.  Not like what's between me and Alison or you and Cas," she adds, mouth twitching at what must show on his face.  "It was just the first step, but--when we take apprentices, that bond is part of it, and it's very personal. It's how we pass down certain skills, but generally, it's most frequent use is to stop our apprentices from killing themselves doing something stupid."  Dean nods; he met a lot of the apprentices and 'doing stupid shit' was a given no matter their actual age.  "When the earth deactivated the link, that one didn't go with it, not for Mama.  You were ours from the moment you made the offering, but you were hers first. She's not here now, but I am, and now that the earth's spoken--well, I can feel it, too.  Enough to pick the worst place and time to ask you this, I know, but--" She shrugs wryly.  "We claim the very earth as our domain, Dean; we don't easily give up what is ours."
The little he's starting to remember makes that much less terrifying than it should be (or he's getting used to being claimed by people and/or entities, which just--yeah, not thinking about that).  Except the part where it's him.  "You're serious.  You really want me as an apprentice?"
"Oh yeah," she answers. "And it's not just leftovers from Mama, though it's definitely motivating.  For one, even when you didn't understand what we were or what we did, you respected our traditions and listened to what we told you.  That's rare when it comes to outsiders, especially gringos, and every one that we found that wanted to join, we claimed.  For another, you already belong to my tradition, and in my bloodline, our service to the earth has always primarily been as hunters and protectors.  Encouraging the fertility of the earth is part of that, but not all of us were into that, and we generally left it to those who really, really like farming--even got degrees in agriculture--and I was never that.  Hence, Dina and Mercedes give me my instructions, which I relay to the earth."
Dean can't help but smile.  "History degree, I remember."
"In that sense, it's the same job you're doing now as a hunter, just formalized and with some bells and whistles," she says.  "And if it helps, you wouldn't be the only one in first year apprentice training as an adult.  Mercedes and Dina are both considering making an attempt to see if the earth will speak to them. I haven't told them--because I can't--that it won't be a problem that's what they truly want.  It has to be a free choice; the earth won't hear them if they don't come to her wanting to give their service, not just performing a duty."
Which reminds him.  "What about Manuel? He never…?"
"He heard and spoke to it when he was a kid, like I did," she answers, eyes distant.  "He finished his apprenticeship when I did, but he just never felt it.  That's normal; you don't make the offering unless you're sure it's your road.  But recently--Mercedes says he's spending a lot of time in the garden doing nothing particularly interesting and looking like he's enjoying it.  She's pretty sure as soon as Amanda's class is done and we have Chitaqua-trained hunters to pick up the slack, he'll re-apprentice and make the offering." She smiles wryly. "I have to admit, I'm looking forward to that, too; it'll be like going on vacation."
Huh.  "He thinks he made the wrong choice?"
"No, not that; the choice you make on whether or not to make the offering is never wrong," she says, then pauses, thinking about it.  "The kid he was--the man he was--wasn't the person who felt the call to do it, much less wanted to.  Now, he's someone that does."
"A thousand people," Dean says without thinking: a dancer, a doctor, a lawyer, a person can be any of those or all of them, even at the same time (though that sounds exhausting as shit).  "What would I have to do? Not that I’m agreeing," he adds quickly, and Teresa immediately looks deliberately solemn.  "Just--information."
"From first principles, like any apprentice," she says.  "You made your offering, but that doesn't mean you know how to use it, so the link will stay inactive while you learn." So you don't kill yourself really, really stupidly, she doesn't need to say.  "Some things will take more time, some less, but if you're asking if you need to live here, no.  Only when children are apprenticed do they need constant supervision, for obvious reasons.  With adults, once the initial instruction is complete, it's different.  You'd need to come a few days a month for me to evaluate your progress and continue your instruction, and for you to ask me questions, but most of it is studying and practicing what I teach you on your own.  Most of the adults that returned to us after the epidemic couldn't just quit their jobs, even if they wanted to: most had families, friends, a life they were living.  We wouldn't ask them to give that up even if we could, and we're not suppose to anyway.  Our service heavily encourages familial bonds and friendships, participating in our communities, and living our lives fully."  She shrugs. "We can't save the world if we've never met it, after all."
He starts to nod agreement--that's something hunters keep forgetting no matter how many times they learn--then pauses, glancing down at the slippered foot peeking out from the frayed hem of her jeans.  Without thinking, he reaches out, pulling the hem back to reveal her ankle and--not surprising at all--the half-scabbed lines and whorls of the symbol carved int her skin.  The ward lock that keeps the wards around the daycare raised until she breaks the lock herself or dies.
Teresa doesn't move. "I can explain that."
"You added a lock for the wards you put on the Wall," he says mildly after examining it and noting the extras; that's not the only thing she did, but he can't quite remember where he's seen the rest before.  
It hits him again how easy it is to get distracted by shit like power and forget Teresa's power is pretty much the least impressive thing about her.  The same woman that worked out how to break a human sacrifice based in the brain would have no problem not only putting the lock for the wards around the daycare in the one place no one would think of--and why didn't someone think of that?  Alison sees her naked, for fuck's sake!--but efficiently alter the original lock to add in the wards on the wall surrounding the entire town with a few more strokes of the knife and a band-aid.  It's not that it's not possible to alter something already existing and activated, or even doing it while it's still active without breaking it and starting over--he's basically downgraded anything rated 'impossible' to 'probably not going to happen, or at least not right now if we're lucky--but that's not power and sure as fuck not a lucky accident.  That's knowledge, that's years of study and examination and observation, practice and experiments and thousands and thousands of failures until she got it right. 
And on a guess, Ichabod or anything like this wasn't something she was thinking of when she first started working on it, either; what he's looking at probably was at least a year or two's worth of research and work after she made the offering and exploring what she could do.  Fucking around with the fundamentals is territory only an expert should explore, and you don't live long enough to be an expert if you haven’t mastered the magical version of the scientific method.  And really fucking significantly--to him--not a lot of experts actually ever bother with more than bells and whistles on the crazy-complicated shit even when it's not related to human sacrifice. 
Not that the ward lock is complicated; it's simple, and that's the thing.  With something that simple, the only things to fuck around with are what you might consider the fundamental principles of magic and most people don't do that (and survive). But Teresa--who knows better than anyone but maybe Cas not just the rules but why they exist--is doing what looks like a serious reinterpretation of a fairly important part those principles.  On a guess, the reason she even thought to try was 'why not?'
(He lives with one of those kind of people, and honestly, he's kind of pissed he didn't recognize on sight another one.  Or at least realized it when she worked out how to break a sacrificial circle located in the goddamn brain, Jesus.  Cas didn't notice, but no surprise there; he thinks powering Chitaqua's wards with Lucifer's Grace using two average sigils and weaponized linear time is something everyone does when they're bored. Invisibility is for when you're high.)
If she was the example the younger apprentices were following, the woman that would one day be instructing other witches once she made the offering, no fucking wonder Constanza was terrified of Teresa making the offer too early.  She must have had nightmares about it for the almost-decade between the epidemic and Teresa's twenty-first birthday.
Regular humans have the Enlightenment and Reformation and all that shit denoting sudden leaps in progress, spearheaded by a person (or a lot of people but one gets credit).  It looks like that's not the only kind, though, and Constanza must have known it. Not just witchcraft, but the practice of magic itself was on the verge of a great leap forward, the proof probably first seen in pre-adolescent Teresa's homework and witnessed in the garden or workroom, because Tiny Teresa had personal power to burn and was probably there every afternoon after school trying to work out how to do something that she was told no one could possibly do, just to find out why not.  Something literally no one had until that moment ever so much as questioned.
"Don't tell--"
"I won't," he says, pulling the denim back down until the symbol is hidden again.  It's not that he doesn't get the danger, but come the fuck on; the dawning Age of Magical Enlightenment (or Magical Reason, who knows?) in front of him probably has a better grasp of what she's doing than he does or possibly anyone ever.  Then he realizes something else.  "No one can see it, can they?"
She makes a face. "Everyone that I don't want to can, of course--Alison, Manuel, Sudha, Neer, Cas…" He makes the same face: of course. "At least at first.  You, no.  You shouldn't even have thought to look, actually."  
He thinks of those extra, weirdly-familiar lines.  "At first?"
A mischievous look crosses her face. "It was just something I've been playing with, just to see what happens.  The wards at Chitaqua gave me the idea. Cas described how the closer you get, the more you don’t really want to--power does that by nature, great way of hiding something, but I started thinking about that, and it's not like we don’t have the tools to do something similar manually.  In fact, it occurred to me that dissonance might do the same thing," she says eagerly, not noticing him fail dramatically at words. "Dissonance takes advantage of how people trust their senses, and I thought--" She stops as Dean starts to laugh, tipping her head to the side and trying to look severe but failing. "Okay, what?"
It takes him a minute (that definitely explains why Alison missed seeing that symbol), but he finally manages to get enough breath to talk. "You're about two steps from invisibility--practical invisibility," he says breathlessly and watches her face light up like a goddamn bonfire: example to prove them all, right here. All she'd needed was Cas to talk about the wards--just talk about them, for fuck's sake--not to just make the first leap, but work on a goddamn prototype to test on her own body. And it worked.  
Her biggest obstacle right now is literally lack of infinite knowledge, but hey, that's something they can do something about.  "After this is over, you and Cas get a magic day to yourselves," he promises before she demands details; it's not that he wouldn't give 'em, but he can't imagine a way he won't sound like a toddler explaining special relativity to a theoretical astrophysicist (except thanks to Cas's adhoc lectures, he probably could, which horrifies him on so many levels).  Cute is the best he can hope for: useful, not even in theory.  "Show him this, then make him tell you exactly how he powers Chitaqua's wards while you're at it.  Trust me, it's so much cooler when he tells it.  And kind of terrifying," he admits. "But once you get over that part, cool."
"You are such an asshole," she says without heat, but her expression is conflicted.  "Dean, I get some things--maybe a lot of things--are going to remain need to know on both sides, maybe for a while.  Maybe indefinitely.  For everyone's safety."
That's true, but it's about time they start asking the question 'how much?' and for that matter ask it regularly, because that's one answer that needs to change every time.  
"I know," he says, making a decision, and he doesn't think Cas--knowing Teresa like they do, not just knowing who and what she is, but knowing her--will disagree.  "This is different. Trust me, a magical day is optimistic--I'm guessing it's gonna be three days before we'll be able to pry you and Cas out of your workroom--you have one, right? Like Constanza's?"
She smiles.  "I do.  When this is over, you're going to get to see it and be impressed; even Mama didn't get an entire town of engineers, programmers, architects, and interior designers to build it.  The design documents alone….  They knew more about what I wanted than I did."
"I can't wait." Only belatedly, Dean realizes what she offered so casually.  A witch's workroom--any practitioner's workroom--is a notch or ten above a hunter's full arsenal and library; that shit is private.  He doubts that many non-practitioners have ever seen anything more than the weird-ass room with herbs and shit hanging on the walls and some ominous dishes and a few glasses containers of sketchy powders or leaves or bones or something.  
Then again, not a lot of them were taught by a witch everything he needed to know for the next time that he dealt with one.
He didn't remember Constanza's before today--right now, actually--much less anything she or the rest of them taught him, but he'd kept something of it all this time. It's pretty much the only explanation why he generally dismissed ninety percent of what he saw in any witch's--or wannabe practitioner, no reason to insult real witches--home or creepy-ass shed or whatever they thought looked creepy enough to work.  He knew what was important in one of those Carefully Weird Showroom For the Mundanes and Asshole Hunters (that being most of them, probably including him).  It's not that they didn't use the stuff they kept there--they did--or never worked in there--they definitely did for simple stuff, otherwise no sense of ominous power soaked carefully into the walls--but that's not where they did their real work.  Which is also why he could tell a new practitioner or one that was painfully stupid; they actually thought the showroom was supposed to be real and really believed a collection of human skulls or hanging animal parts were required for display or something.  New or stupid, though, your start value was always sketchy at best and that part, he never got wrong.  
With the emerging memories, Dean also has a lot of--somewhat embarrassing in retrospect--context for why he met so few non-sketchy witches after Laredo, even when it came to shit like accidents, which could happen to anybody and by sheer law of probability, should have.  The answer is pretty goddamn obvious; accidents by the non-sketchy set weren't going to be in the same ballpark.  On a guess, they probably tended to be a.) pretty unnoticeable by hunter standards (not dangerous, very localized, mostly weird), b.) too weird to believe even by hunter standards, though not by his (inconvenient or at worst alarming for a regular person, possibly  toxic, but lethal never), or c.) most magic that could go really wrong was either thoroughly tested first or only performed--like anyone with common sense--in a properly built workroom.  In any case, all problems or accidents would be taken care of well before anyone noticed, or if they did, before they could spread the word too far.
Come to think, he remembers Zena telling him about what happened to apprentices who screwed up.  She'd been meeting with her study group in Constanza's living room a month or so after they got rid of whatever the fuck that thing had been.
Three months: he remembers that now.  He remembers why.
He'd been warned that he'd need at least a couple of weeks to recover no matter how he thought he felt; they'd either been trying to be kind or overestimated him like a lot (he's not sure which one would be worse).  After sleeping three days straight, the next week had seen him make the weirdly long journey to the kitchen on sheer will (he'd be fucked if anyone was bringing him a tray in bed, but Zena changed his mind on that pretty quickly.  Also, that collapse in the kitchen had been (really) goddamn embarrassing. The second and third time had been even worse).  At two weeks, he felt well enough to venture into more of the house than the bathroom--or at least, the parts where he wouldn't get in anyone's way.  That plan failed when he was sighted on the stairs looking in no danger of collapse; if he was well enough to come out under his own power (and not pass out like an idiot in the kitchen again),  he was well enough to dry--and eventually, wash--dishes, fold laundry, peel potatoes, help Constanza and Lita make tortillas, and tell them everything they wanted to know about northern hunters, which for some reason included telling them way more about himself than he'd ever told anyone, ever.  
At three weeks, he'd graduated to playing with the kids outside in the mornings (and napping with them after lunch, though Constanza let him pretend he was babysitting), and since he was up and around, Zena invited him to join them one night and learn all about the glamorous life of an apprentice witch.
He remembers boggling at the idea of homework--and kind of still does--and listening as they tried to explain to a non-witch Really Advanced Witch Shit (Witch 101 it was not), sprinkled with complaints about what they could and couldn't show him or were allowed to do outside the apprentice workroom or Tia Constanza's supervision, when they'd sit for their next exam and move up, and the (generally) funny stories of those who had broken the rules, what they did, how everyone reacted, and the inevitable consequences.  
To his own surprise, he had a really good time with them; only now does it occur to him that was the first time since high school that he spent any amount of time with anyone younger than Dad (excluding Sam), much less people in his general age range.  Not only that, they were like him in ways that no one in his age group ever had been: some had been orphaned by the epidemic, had raised younger brothers and sisters or cared for elderly family members who had no one else at the age most kids were starting high school, and while they used the word 'witch', what they were learning was how to be hunters, just ones who could talk to the ground and have it answer back and do cool shit.   He does remember thinking how relaxing it was to just hang out without worrying about any itchy trigger fingers that only got itchier with the addition of half a bottle of whiskey-fueled paranoia, and the average hunter's start value there really didn’t need the help.
(Christ, he may have actually mentioned that to Constanza later, fuck his life.  Dad's lessons on what not to talk about wouldn't have covered what Dean would consider normal conversation with friendly people.  He remembers what twenty-three year old him would have categorized as 'normal conversation', and he can't think of anything that wouldn't have been--at minimum--alarming. Worse, they were hunters so he wouldn't have even tried to filter for 'civilian' (though in retrospect, that wouldn't have been better), and at that point, he was more comfortable with them than he'd ever been with Dad.  He was babysitting, making dinner, and taking rotations in bathroom cleaning duty; he couldn't lie to people he was living with and who were taking care of him, and God, they made it easy to want to be honest the way he'd never been able to risk with anyone else.
Despite what he must have told them (maybe the specific memories won't come back, please God), Constanza still let him around the kids: hell, she let him be around other people and introduced him to the neighbors like a person.  What the hell was she thinking?  By their standards, he probably sounded like he was raised by hunter-shaped, probably drunk, wolves.  Homeless drunk wolves, poorly domesticated and with variable levels trigger discipline depending on the difficulty of the job and the amount of post-mission whiskey, Jesus.)
He's still trying to decide whether to share that with Teresa--she'd get the humor and horror--when all at once, the memory of that entire night slots into place.
"The price for screwing up is never so high that we can't pay it in full," Zena told him wryly after everyone left, getting them each a beer while he stacked up her books and tucked her papers into their folders before putting them out of the way, wondering if someone was doing the same thing for Sam at Stanford or if his dorm room now qualified a fire hazard.  Settling back at the kitchen table, she braced a bare foot on the seat of his chair between his legs and grinned at him.  Dark brown hair in a pony tail, wearing a UT Brownsville sweatshirt pulled over her tank top because Constanza's preferred indoor temperature in a Laredo summer was 'ice age' and cut off denim shorts revealing miles of smooth, dark brown skin, she didn't look any older than Sam the last time Dean saw him before he left for good. "If it were, it would be pointless to offer absolution at all and not just declare us unacceptable and kick us out of training, and that's incredibly rare--well, the rarity is part of the reason Mariana turned into a disaster.  But what shape the price takes is personal to who is paying it, so no two are every alike; what seems like nothing to one person is everything to someone else."

"Ouch," he said, taking a drink. "Customized punishment; talk about paying for your sins."


"The thing is, it's not a punishment--I mean, it doesn't have to be, and I don't mean just if you're a developing masochist or something," she explained, playing with her bottle.  "The price is just an expansion of lessons we already learned, or should have; the form that takes is what's personal. I wouldn't have believed it either, but my cousin--who trust me has no reason to lie--enjoyed paying hers.  She said it was something she would never have been allowed to do so soon otherwise. However, that was also the only time she ever had to make payment; she never made another error." She took a long drink, green and blue painted toenails wriggling against his thigh.  Reaching down, he lightly circled her ankle with one hand, running a thumb absently over the knob . "The price is exactly the same whether your error was accidental or deliberate, no matter your reasons.  Whether you see payment as a lot of fun--seriously, I'm not fucking with you--or punishment depends very much on why you made the error."

Dean remembers both skepticism and reluctant belief. "You mean you can literally pick a punish--price that can be either awesome or shitty depending on the intentions of the person?"

"There are advantages to being a witch in service to the earth when you're teaching future witches," she answers wryly.  "Rebellion is natural; we try to remove as many opportunities as possible for anything disastrous to happen, but removing all opportunity or punishing it uniformly would deny us the right to learn and grow.  We're supposed to make mistakes during our apprenticeship, when it's safe and we can be corrected.  Without the opportunity to make mistakes, without rebellion, it would also mean that, at least until the offering, there'd be no way to assure we developed our own sense of right and wrong, not just responded to punishment or reward.  The offering, of course, would take care of that problem very quickly--and permanently--but even the deepest flaws can be corrected if those who carry them are discovered early and given the opportunity to learn and grow. Of the Thirteen now, five were considered risks and of those five, two were a mild surprise when they survived the offering and one…well, a surprise would understate the case.  Glad, don't get me wrong, but 'shock' might also be a word to use here."


"Why?"

"The word 'sociopath' might be used without being dishonest," she answered alarmingly, blowing out a breath. "Trust me, if you met Consuela, you'd get it."  Dean nodded; he'd met more than one hunter that made him want to sleep with gun in hand, one eye open, and with a wall at his back and three locks on the door.  "Tia Constanza said that wasn't itself a problem, though."

"Wait, seriously?"  He lowered his bottle.  "How is that not a problem?"


"No one's inner compass is true north," she explains.  "We're all working constantly to keep in the northeast or northwest quadrants and hope for the best.  Consuela's compass--how did Esperanza put it?--didn't work and couldn't even be calibrated without Consuela doing it herself, manually and basically in the dark on faith by guess, if that makes sense.  It wasn't her fault--that's how she was born--but that didn't make her less dangerous.  Recognizing the problem would be hard enough when you have no reference for what that even is--seriously, wouldn't it sound like people were fucking with you if someone described basic empathy, much less how feelings work?  I wouldn't buy it--but then actually doing something about it…." Her expression changed to a sympathy that surprised him.  "Let's say her road was the hardest anyone could ever take.  No one said it, but no one liked her odds for the offering, but it was her choice, and in any case, all the other options were worse.  She was brilliant, very powerful, charming as fuck, manipulative as hell, and if she went wrong, the consequences could be catastrophic.  So they did what we're supposed to do; trained her, corrected her mistakes, and when she was ready to make the offering, left it to the earth to decide.  And it did.  She's our best in the field now." Zena took a drink, shaking her head.  "She left for her latest assignment a few weeks ago, before Mariana was brought in.  God I wish she'd been here."


Dean frowned.  "Why?"

"Unlike the rest of us, Consuela's inner compass was set manually and now has the earth behind it to help," Zena replies.  "Honestly, for some things, I think hers may be better than ours could ever be; she has to think about it, every decision, and sure, some things may get easier, but she doesn't take anything for granted.  The earth can only do so much even with consent without changing who she is, and it won't ever do that, so a lot of the time, it's up her to figure it out.  She doesn't do it by guess in the dark, though, not anymore.  She turns on every goddamn light by hand and studies it from all angles and doesn't stop until she knows.  She may not always be right, but Constanza says she's also never actually wrong."

And wasn't that food for thought.


"Anyway," Zena continued, "she isn't affected by feelings, personal or otherwise--not saying whether or not she has or understands feelings, but anything's possible--so in some things, she's always true north without a quiver. If she'd been here, Mariana would have been on trial the next morning, her power burned out as well as her ability to access it by dinner, and she would have been executed well before there was any risk she'd fix herself, or even realize she could: three days end to end if Consuela decided to sleep and I doubt it.  She would have done it herself, too, no fucking around or feeling sad for the poor little girl whose parents died during the epidemic and didn't know better." Zena's mouth twisted.  "She knew what she was doing, come on; she meant to kill everyone here.  The only thing she didn't mean to do was get herself killed doing it."

Zena turned in her chair, dropping her feet to the floor, expression serious.  "Remember this if nothing else, Dean--I'll ask Tia Constanza to make sure you don't forget, somehow--when it comes to people with inborn power, there are no guarantees as long as they're still alive.  You can block them, drain them, burn them out, and even burn out their connection to their power, but those are all still temporary.  Blocks can be broken, power can be renewed from its source, and the connection to that source can and will heal, given time; their own power will heal it for them, assuming they can't find someone else to do it before that."

Dean froze, bottle forgotten in his hand.  "You're kidding."

"It gets worse," she says soberly.  "If they manage to unblock themselves or heal from a burnout--and they will, it's just a matter of time--it'll be harder, much harder, to do either one to them again.  It's not like cutting off a leg; inborn power, however it works, wherever it is, or if it's anywhere, has--not sentience or sapience, I don't think, but something. For whatever value of that something, though, it knows who it belongs to and that it should be with them. It will work actively to get back to them when separated and make damn sure whatever caused the separation won't work again.  A witch who gets unblocked--by someone else or who manages to do it themself--can kill everyone around them by accident from the overflow, and I don't think it's actually an accident. At least, I don't think the witch had anything to do with it, whether they'd be okay with it or not."  She suddenly flushed, laughing uncertainly. "I know it sounds crazy--even using 'hanging out with witches and sleeping with an apprentice' as your standard--but our history is very long and very thorough and that is our best guess on the 'why'; that no one with inborn power can ever lose it for good is fact, with no exceptions."

Yeah, definitely something he needed to remember. "Not even the earth can take it away?"


"When it comes to inborn power, no," she said, relaxing, probably because he didn't try and argue (talk out his ass about shit he knew nothing about).  "If I were guessing--and I totally am--she doesn't have the authority to do it.  We're ashes and dust--made of her body--and genetics play a part in who is born with power and the ability to use it, sure, but that's just the container; the power itself is a force of Creation.  Likely it's well above her paygrade to deal with that shit, to be honest.  You really can't blame her.  She has plenty to deal with when it comes to all things earth, trust me."

"So you're saying only God could do it?" he asked, amused. 

Zena thought about it for a minute.  "Well, we're talking Creation," she answered finally.  "So yeah, definitely God.  Maybe some of the gods with authority over Creation--hint, most don't have nearly as much authority as they would have you believe--but even then, good luck finding one who one, isn't a terrible idea on concept to even consider talking to, two, would care, and three, would be objective enough to make a judgement, or at least not have any reason to want to keep whoever intact and use them for greater glory, worshippers, who knows--gods, man, what can you do?"


He laughed (he really did). "So you're saying, bad options mean no options."

"Perish the thought, gringo; you just gotta use your imagination."  Finishing her bottle, she got up and shoved his chair back, straddling his lap.  Grinning, Dean took a final swallow from his and set it out of the way.  "If I were shopping for help, I'd start with someone with a natural claim to Creation's obedience, and I mean written into natural law from the start that even the earth wouldn't be able to argue against,.  Though better if it's someone she doesn't even want to challenge: that means they may not be the type to kill you immediately upon summoning for blaspheme, presumption, or the sheer fuck of it.  Even better, someone considered a neutral even to the gods: translation, someone they generally won't fuck with for love, money, or worship.  My choice?" Draping her arms over his shoulders, she pretended to think about it.  "An angel."

He laughed (again, Dean thinks in distant horror. That poor naïve fuck, he had no idea), and got the edge of her nails on the back of his neck for it.  "You're fucking with me."


"Asshole." Reaching up, she pulled off the ponytail holder, dark hair spilling around them like a living curtain.  "Me, if I was gonna start there, I'd shoot for the moon," she murmured, and Dean's ability to talk in any language suffered an immediate breakdown.  "Not just any angel.  If I were summoning, I'd get the balance and the karma."


Dean paused to blink. "Uh--the what?"


"That's our best translation to date of what to call them.  They're the one who determined the balance of all Creation and interpreted natural law at the dawn of Time."  She grinned at his incredulous expression, leaning in for a kiss.  "If they even existed, I should say," she added breathlessly, pulling off her sweatshirt.  "If they did, though, hell yes, I'd summon them."

It took him a minute watching that; the camisole was kind of thin and--this being summer in Laredo and you know, hot--not a damn thing underneath. "Uh.  Why--" Then he gets it.  "Oh God. You mean the guy's a natural law lawyer?"
"More arbitrator, but yeah, pretty much," she agreed.  "I'm a witch and a lawyer; you bet your ass I would want to talk to the universe's first lawyer who argued cases before Creation itself and won. I don't know a single lawyer who wouldn't sell their souls for that.  I mean, those that haven't sold them already for six figure salaries and yachts." Still grinning, she kissed him, fingers catching the hem of his shirt, and somehow--no fucking idea how--he realized where this was going, which was pretty goddamn obvious, sure, but Zena.  "So, how about you take off--"

"Not here!" he managed, sounding horribly like Sam at age eleven when he ran across the Playboy channel at one of the (very few) motels with cable, much less anything above basic. "Constanza catches us again…." A week of dishes if he was lucky; otherwise, laundry duty, and he swore everyone changed three times a fucking day when his turn came up. Sliding an arm around her waist, he stood up, other hand balancing her beneath her ass.


With a laugh, she wrapped her legs around his waist, and Zena had a lot of leg to work with.  "Think you can make it up the stairs without dropping me?" she asked sweetly. "What a man."


"You bet your ass," he told her sincerely, turning toward the stairs. "Only way I'll drop you is on purpose."


"Just try it, baby," she said encouragingly, leaning close to murmur in his ear, "Hurry."

"Dean?"
"Zena," he says, startled; a decade and change, but it's as new and bright as an insect preserved in amber.  Like it just happened.
José had been restoring a sixty-seven Camaro--Dean spent hours in his garage, the guy was working on an automotive engineering degree, so he paid attention.  Susana was attending a culinary school and interning at a variety of restaurants and brought leftovers and experiments to the study group: they ate squid and goat cheese canapes (that was when he learned those existed and what they were) and baked cranberry brie on bread with twelve grains and a thousand ingredients that somehow tasted amazing anyway and creamed bacon and spinach fancy-name-for-soup, proving for all time bacon was the perfect goddamn food. Tania was a vegan environmental activist, but she seriously loved that bread and it was a fight to get it, every time.  Fransciso was a six foot three inch ballet dancer with the local troupe, possessed not one fucking bone in his body as far as Dean could tell, and could out-eat Dean (but not, as it turned out, outdrink).  Diana was the oldest of them, whose parents had died in the epidemic fourteen years before; though barely seventeen at the time, with Tia Constanza's and the rest of the family's help, she fought for and was finally awarded custody of her little brother and two little sisters.  She'd just come back after seeing the brother, the youngest, start college; of the two girls, one was a senior majoring in pre-med on track to graduate top of her class a year early (Jesus), and the other was starting her first year of graduate school in the same discipline as Diana.
He forgot them; it seems impossible.  "Her--uh, study group.  I hung out with them a few times."
Teresa raises an eyebrow, and he wonder frantically if the earth told her something about that last part with Zena--he didn't quite get to the definitely not fade to black part but that was a good night--before he remembers in relief that no one can read his mind, even the earth.  He suddenly wonders if Teresa is psychic, separate from the earth.  José was; he could pick up strong feelings and it annoyed the hell out of him.  As José put it, it was an uncomfortable ability to have on concept, but his only randomly bothered to work so you never really got used to having it, much less actually actively using it (though Dean's pretty sure his reaction to being introduced to that Camaro was what got him the invite to help, but then again, José's first meeting with the Impala was what got Dean that garage invite in the first place).  Diana had some amount of clairvoyance, but luckily, according to her, it was short term and pretty weak.  Constanza told him that psychic abilities other than those that came with the offering tended to either be latent--usually showing up after the offering--or random, unreliable, and varied between 'mildly inconvenient' and 'this is bullshit, I don't need to know this or care'.  
Then he realizes there's a question he should have asked before now.  Not knowing won't change the answer, though.  "Uh--Zena.  Did she…."
"She made the offering two and a half years after you met," Teresa says with a smile, and Dean breathes out, startled by the intensity of his relief.  "Literally on her thirtieth birthday: six-oh-eight AM."  He chuckles: of course she did.  "When I began hunting full time on the migrant circuit, she took my place in the Thirteen and yes, as of the last time I was in Laredo, she still worked at Legal Aid making many very expensive lawyers feel very, very inadequate." On a guess, the number of (American) employers abusing their off the books, undocumented employees has decreased significantly in a rough fifty mile radius and fuck knows what she's doing when it comes to ICE's shitty raiding habit, but he assumes they really, really hate it. Was doing, he corrects himself, amusement vanishing; Texas was the latest to be zoned.  The Valley is on the other side of the state from Houston, but nuclear fallout…how far does that spread?  Why doesn't he know that?  "There are fifteen holding the border as of now--literally," she adds, holding Dean's eyes.  "Mama finally got them to agree to start expanding the number. They were way too attached to that mystical number thirteen despite the fact it wasn't actually mystical."
He swallows.  "You can still sense them?"
"No, the earth here isn't the earth there; it's only singular when it's something that concerns or threatens the earth or Creation in toto, not just individual parts." Seeing his expression, she nods understandingly.  "No, I don’t get it either and when I asked for clarification, the answer's resulting headache assured I'd never try again." She wrinkles her nose fastidiously. "When I asked if she could tell me anything--and believe it or not, that took me a lot longer to ask about them than it took you to ask about Zena--the answer was both baffling and pretty thorough.  Short version: the border holds, the Fifteen--that's when I found out about the two additions--are strong, all is well, now could I turn my attention to important things, meaning here." Dean can't quite stop the laugh--mostly relief--and Teresa joins him.  "Individually, she can't tell me anything--here, she's never even met them--but at least some part of my family is still alive and protecting the border, and I'm pretty sure Mama and Zena are among them."
Constanza and Zena aren't exactly the helpless type.  "Did José ever get the Camaro running?"
Her grin is different now. "Yes, and there's a story; ask Manuel, he was there.  I would try, but I didn't understand any of it.  There was a carburetor--something--involved, though.  That was the funny part, apparently."
God, he has to hear that.  "Give Joe a list of everyone you want to check on," he says impulsively, wondering why the hell he hadn't offered before.  For fuck's sake, this is one of the few things they can do for people other than monster-hunting.  "Check with everyone in Ichabod," he adds, and her eyes widen.  "Uh, start with permanent residents, though."
"That's--generous," she starts carefully.  "But when we asked, they said, even if they could do it--"
"They can, it's not that hard if it you can find out via computer, and we can get it for half of whatever they told you it might cost and pay most of that with shitty military surplus," he tells her, and her mouth falls open.  "We pay for Joe to get semi-restricted, supervised computer access for an hour or two--I think," he adds uncertainly, because actually, that's not exactly what Joe said, he just nodded at Dean's interpretation.  He may need to follow up on that, come to think--well, maybe Cas can and tell him about it.  "Joe was a network administrator, and I think this might explain that despite the fact one of our regular budget items is really expensive whiskey, I've never actually gotten any."
She snickers.  "Don't tell me Joe--of all people--was embezzling?"
"He hid it in plain sight," Dean tells her.  "To notice, I'd have to have actually read the reports he turned in detailing expenses and also care."  She starts to laugh.  "So Joe's probably getting the border personnel drunk and hacking their network right in front of him, then giving them the shittiest rifles that the lowest bidder could provide the military in return.  Yeah, we can definitely afford it."
"Thank you," she says sincerely, and he watches her fingers sliding through the scrub grass, swirling the dirt like someone else would water in a pond it so ripples out in tiny, impossible circles.  Every so often, it seems to climb up her fingers before sliding back down again in what Dean can't help but think of as affection.
Seeing him watching, she shrugs.  "The earth can be a little possessive.  The border--not to mention most of the southwest, Mexico, and Central America--has had witches of some tradition for centuries to claim it, to serve it, care for it, listen to it, even if we were just passing through; she hasn't, not in a long time. Thinking about it, I can see why she'd be a little wary when the subject came up."
"So she's happy you're here," Dean blurts out, though yeah, that part's obvious. "I mean--happy you're here, or…." He can't think of a way to ask that doesn't sound insulting or weird.  You'd think having offered to it, he'd have a little more to work with, but either the memories are still pending or he was really, really bad at it.  He has a bad feeling it's probably the latter.
"I know what you mean, and yes, it's personal, not just 'acolyte showing up yay'," Teresa says. "She's different here, and I don't think it's because she was asleep so long."
"How?" 
"In Laredo, the earth is a constant presence in our lives, but it's been awake for generations, so we can always feel it in the background no matter where we are on the border.  There were a lot of us, though, and a lot of witches pledged to it, so it was personal--it knew us--but not personal.  Here, she's not just a presence; she's here.  I mean actively here, and not because she needs something or has questions.  She wants my attention, of course, but she's fine with just--I guess 'hanging around' is the best interpretation." Teresa laughs self-consciously, but Dean doesn't miss how she watches him or how she relaxes when he just nods.  "I told you that we're strict traditionalists; when we want to talk to the earth, or when it wants to talk to us--unless its urgent or something with our immediate duties--we draw a formal circle and offer blood.  Her--not so much.  The first time I drew a formal circle to talk--after the one I did to introduce myself and make my claim--she was baffled.  When I explained, she thought it was ridiculous." 
Teresa laughs, shaking her head.  "She didn't see the point of--ritual for ritual's sake, basically," she continues, amusement in her voice. "Unless it was a formal petition or something invoking natural law, of course; that meant invoking power she couldn't control, and of course I should be protected, that's common sense.  But when it's just me and I want to talk, I'm just supposed to talk; she'd be listening and hear whatever I said.  I meditate if I need to discuss something complicated--or she does and needs my full attention so I can understand--but that's as formal as it gets.  For value of casual chat, though, she's nailed that in realtime."
Dean tries, he really does, but--  "The earth is--chatty?  Seriously?"
"Yes, I should have mentioned that was also a surprise," Teresa admits.  "To be fair, in Laredo, I wasn't a senior witch or anything special; I know I made it sound very dramatic, but I wasn't any more important than any of the other apprentices or witches.  The only reason I was one of the Thirteen was because there was literally no one else at the time, and by the time I started on the migrant circuit, I was very replaceable.  So maybe the earth's chatty on the border, just with the older witches.  Esperanza is the eldest and most senior now; I really wish I could ask her."
His imagination--which has been going above and beyond when it comes to shit like Hell recently--fails on concept when it comes to anyone or anything being chatty with Esperanza.   She's the kind that you politely as fuck answer when she asks a question and try to avoid her notice otherwise.  She also preferred essays to short answers, which converted to time would be an hour and a half at bare minimum and no guarantee you'd be allowed to sit. It wasn't that she was mean or anything; it was that she was one hundred and one with more confirmed kills in the last month than he had had in a year.  In a one on one, he genuinely doubted he could beat her, no magic required.  Younger, stronger, and faster wouldn't mean shit to her; everything she would have come up against her entire life would have been the last two as a given and with power attached, and sometimes, she'd be outclassed there, too.  She'd know every possible way to deal with all of those and even more she'd made up herself, and at that point, a tactical evaluation of those around her was probably reflex (it's not something you can miss feeling no matter how old they are or frail they pretend to look).  He'd be down before he even realized she was doing anything.  Talk about a living, breathing example of what Cas meant about training his students to understand that speed and strength were only tools that could be countered.  "Uh--"
"Yeah, not surprised you remember her again already. She's hard to forget, even with the earth's help," Teresa tells him wryly, and yeah.  "I don't buy it either.  Tia Esperanza, not chatty.  Little terrifying, though." 
"Thank God," Dean says in relief.  "I thought it was just me because I was a gringo hunter and also not a witch."
"No, she makes everyone feel inadequate and like you should be better armed and watching her very closely for sudden movements," Teresa assures him.  "To be fair, she's hunted the border since before she made the offering; her default setting is 'pre-combat'. Though honestly," she adds, blowing out an annoyed breath, "she could probably turn that shit off, but I guess it's way more fun to make everyone twitchy."  She makes a face. "Anyway, chatty.  Usually the earth's quiet when I'm busy or talking to someone, but some people, she's less discreet if we're talking about something she finds interesting.  With Neer and Sudha and Manuel--or Alison, Dina, Mercedes, and even Tony--it can feel like she's working on how to join the conversation through me. It's a work in progress."
"Okay, I get everyone but Tony," Dean says, thinking, and then realizing how that sounded, he quickly corrects himself. "Not that he's not cool, but your brother, your girlfriend, the agricultural experts, and your students, that makes sense.  Job related and personal life."
"It does, doesn't it?" she agrees, mouth quirking, and he remembers, right, her active interest in someone not her acolyte is also pretty new.  "When Tony found out what I am--that was back when he was our very cranky surprise mayor--he would ask after her, how she was doing, if there was anything she needed Ichabod could help with.  And you know Tony--he was being polite, yeah, but he also genuinely meant it.  That surprised her--which was nice, not being the only one feeling that all the time--and since then, he always has her attention.  He talks to her when he has shifts in the fields, too--says it's only polite--and while she doesn’t always understand him, she really enjoys it.  If he asks her anything, she always tries to get him an answer, including getting clarification if she doesn't understand the question."  Her mouth curves into a maliciously pleased smile. "And when his ass needs to get back inside, drink some water, and rest, she informs me. We take turns, but Alison has the best luck.  She whines, it's hilarious."
Dean grins, surprised by his own interest.  "What else?  Is different, I mean."
"The earth is curious, that's a given, but here, she's curious about everything, even things that have no relation to her," Teresa continues. "If she doesn't understand, she wants context so she can--and let me tell you, that's an adventure in itself--and if that fails…she doesn't give up, not really, and that was a surprise.  She just waits, and when it comes up, she tries again; about half the time, she gets it on the second or third try, but Dean, that's just the start--once, it took her eleven separate attempts before she got it, and we have some in progress working on their twentieth attempt with no sign she's going to stop until it clicks.  And people--I thought in Laredo it paid attention, but if she were human, she'd be the most determined stalker ever.  But in good way," she explains.  "She knows everyone--individually, I mean--whether or not they have the potential to be hers. Or more--she considered everyone here hers, just not everyone meant for direct service, something like that.  Though that part is best guess, I'm not sure she even knows what to call it."
She pause for a moment, thinking. "I thought I might be imagining it--its easy to slip into thinking of the earth here as just another person when she's really, really not--but I'm starting to think the problem is our definition of 'person' is far too narrow.  She contacted you during that Croat attack; in itself, that's odd above and beyond.  She knows the rules of combat; she's very careful when I'm working or fighting about dividing my attention and never has.  Which isn't exactly hard; we're bound, my attention on something means hers is as well."
Dean nods, but actually, he does have a question.  "About that.  I've been in Ichabod several times, and we've talked about Laredo at least.  The earth laughed because Cas wanted to farm!  I mean, it didn't seem to care about me then.  It really didn't notice me until I was outside Ichabod?" 
Teresa is quiet for a long time, and glancing down, he sees her fingers have paused in the swirling of the bare dirt.  "In return for what you did for us, for the promise you made--and for what you sacrificed to keep that promise, and don't ever think we didn't understand losing the memories was a sacrifice, a big one--the earth made you a promise, too; to let you go, so you could live your life as you would have had you never come to Laredo," she answers slowly.  "As Cas told you, the earth's standards are very high when it comes to consent; we belong to it, and it protects us, even from our own ignorance or recklessness if it can.  The earth--singular, in toto--released you from your promise five months ago, but that didn't matter if you didn't release it from its promise.  If I'd introduced you in a formal circle, she might have told me it released you and wanted to acknowledge you, but that's probably the only way I can think of it happening without compromising consent.  In a sense, she may have felt that she couldn't notice you, not under the terms of the promise, unless you did it first.  That's part of the reason I was debating what to tell you and how much; we made you a promise, too, and I didn't want to risk breaking it, even by accident.  It's far too easy," she adds ruefully, "for what we want to interfere with objective judgment, and we try to match the standard set by the earth in all things."
Dean blinks at the idea she wanted to tell him enough that she couldn't be objective; that apprentice bond thing must have been screwing with her or something.
"I can't say she broke the earth's promise, even technically; she has the natural right to simple contact with anyone.  Hearing her isn't guaranteed, of course--you need to know how, either an inborn sense or by being taught--but that's irrelevant.  Honestly, I get the sense it was the result of surprise; permanent wards drawn on a continuous surface are much stronger, especially when active.  She was watching the battle closely with me, and you were one of the very few living humans out there.  When you hit the ward line while it was already fully active--well, I'm not sure how she could avoid recognizing you; it probably was the equivalent of bumping into her.  Her timing--I'm not saying the best time to say hi is during battle, but you weren't actively occupied with saving lives, fighting to protect your own, or running quickly away from an army of Croat death."
That's true.  "Okay, that makes sense. And tonight?"    
"Anyone with any sensitivity would have felt something, but unless they knew what, they wouldn't really notice or care.  That it triggered a memory that isn't in your linear memory anymore--the earth wouldn't do that deliberately; that would be a breach of promise.  Assuming it even could get through whatever Cas used in the binding between you, and it can't. Saying 'hi' is one thing; you might hear it or not.  Actually getting into your mind--no, breach of promise or not."
He forgot about that.  "So it was random, an accident. All of this." 
"Yes," she answers, and Dean has a moment of--something? Disappointment?  Why?--before she adds, "Except not really.  At least, the result.  She was being opportunistic tonight; she was watching for something she could use, she just didn't expect the perfect storm of Sudha and Neer making the offering and you picking up enough to trigger the memory of your own offering.  If you'd told Cas after the Croat battle what happened, he would have recognized what you experienced and spoken to me, and she would be able to explain that she would like you to release her from her promise." Startled, he sees Teresa's distant gaze.  "Tonight--it was luck, but she's taking advantage of it.  That Cas was affected--that upset her very much.  Which tells me that if she'd deliberately triggered that memory, she would have stopped it the moment she sensed Cas reacting to it."
That makes sense; pissing off an angel--mortal or not--probably isn't ever a good idea.  "So you said she considers everyone in Ichabod hers?" he asks, deciding on a change of subject.  "How's she about everything going on now?"
Thankfully, Teresa goes with it.  "If we were must-see TV, the big party was the season opener and we're living the entire damn season now. With everything happening, at this point, it's binge territory."
"Can't blame her," Dean admits, not even pretending he should care about whether this should qualify as weird; he literally has no idea.   The earth finds all this some fucking good drama; it's not like she's wrong.  "Is she--worried? About what's happening?  I mean, would she understand what that even is?"
Teresa thinks about it carefully. "Yes and no, but not as it applies to abstract potentials," she says finally.  "Concrete possibilities, yes, and for that matter, concrete possibilities that she's experienced or could experience, and generally in an immediate timeframe--a season at most.  Like when I asked about Laredo, where she knows I came from and made my offering: she worried that my inquiry meant I wanted to go back, or that I'd feel I have to because the earth there took my offering."  She shakes her head and starts to smile, eyes distant for a moment.  "We cleared that up pretty thoroughly, but I certainly don't mind reminding her, anytime she wants."
That love is part of Teresa's bond with the earth was a given, but somehow, he didn't expect it be like this; it's not just part and parcel of her service, but--well, personal.
Abruptly, her smile fades, replaced with worry.  "She couldn't--or wouldn't--express an opinion on Sudha and Neer's progress, but anticipation--that, she definitely felt.  I would have said before that the earth doesn't interfere with when someone chooses to make the offering, but now I wonder--in Laredo, the earth really didn't need to give an opinion; we had an entire tradition built to assure no one went out until they were ready.  Here, it's only me and my judgment, and honestly, my judgment shouldn't be in play at all when it comes to when to make the offering, any more than my teachers in Laredo decided when any of us would.  The offering is personal; whether I think someone is ready has nothing to do with if they actually are;  I can give my opinion, but that's all it is, and should only be a factor in their decision, not the reason they make it.  That's why we train so much to do it: so that each of us can make that decision with full information on what we're doing and why."
"You think she--called them?" Dean asks, though he's pretty sure that's where this is going. "Or something?"
"I do," Teresa says bleakly, and oh no, he can see where this is going.  "If they were ready and were just waiting for me, she might have had to.  Because I--"
"She noticed you were stressing about them and decided you needed one less thing to worry about?" Dean tries, biting back his grin at her expression.  "Look, I know nothing about this but from what you told me--and assume I understood a tenth of that---I seriously doubt the earth was thinking anything but that you did your job and what was left was up to her--and them."  Then, at her faint frown, dark eyes distant, "The earth have any thoughts to share?"
"No," she answers, still looking into nothing.  "Very non-chatty.  And super obvious about being non-chatty."  Her eyes clear and she sighs.  "I’m overthinking it."
"You did your job teaching them," he says.  "The earth must think you nailed it. Can't see her calling them unless you had."
"I don't know what's worse," she says in annoyance. "Knowing that I was being ridiculous and still not able to stop myself, or feeling better now after listening to you tell me the blindingly obvious after telling me you have no idea what you're talking about."
"You gotta hear Cas one day," he tells her. "He can convince you he knows exactly what he's talking about and that he's right when you not only know he doesn't know shit, he just told you he doesn't know shit.  Though the last part he only does when he really wants to fuck with your head."
"He thinks it's funny," she says, one hundred percent correct on all points, but then, she knows him.  "Well, angel: talk about a voice of authority.  He can still do that?"
"Oh yeah," Dean confirms.  "But somehow, mortality made him a lot better at it, and somewhere along the line, he worked out how much fun it could be to use it."
"Oh God," she says in a different voice, meeting Dean's eyes. "No wonder she wants to talk to him so much.  Infinite being living in his own mortal flesh, not just a loaner; the earth doesn't like fakers," she adds distractedly, and Dean would laugh, but hey, she's right about that shit. "She probably thinks he can bridge what she doesn't understand about me and wants to know, and did I mention she's curious about everything? She wants tips."
They stare at each other for a moment of shared horror of the earth learning more about the mortal condition from Cas. "Maybe he--can't do that for her," Dean tries with literally no hope of that being true.
"She's already learning something from him; she watches him constantly when he's here," Teresa says calmly, like you do when all hope is not just lost, but murdered in front of you while you begged for its life. "Though what…I suppose I'll find out soon enough."
She's not nearly worried enough, which means she hasn't considered what will happen once Cas figures out why the earth wants to talk to him.  He won't just answer her questions, every goddamn one; he'll tell her new questions she should ask and answer them, too.  He'll teach her about sarcasm, fuck their lives  "Sorry," he says, which is pretty much the best he can do here.
The back door opening interrupts them.  Teresa twists around in transparent relief and Dean doesn't even pretend he doesn't feel the same way.  "Almost dawn," Alison says, looking at them warily.  "You have a meeting with Wendy and the others in about thirty minutes.  Food and coffee, at the same time even."
"We'll be right in," Teresa agrees brightly, and Alison's wariness doubles before she goes back in.
"Wendy figured out the instructions in the toner?" Dean asks, standing up and automatically extending a hand to help Teresa to her feet.
"She thinks so," she answers, dusting off her jeans. "Whoever did it made a hell of a mess with the instructions, so it took time to get them in their original form in full.  Last night, Wendy was trying to reproduce it to see if she was right; we're checking her results when she gets here. I'll be calling a meeting this morning as soon as we've confirmed, but honestly, I don't think she can be wrong. We're just barely qualified to even validate her work; at her level, she can't make mistakes on something that--as far as her specialty goes--is pretty basic. Infusions have very, very little margin of error when you're anything less than a full master, especially at the lower levels; if it works, there are very few variations on the steps to get there and she knows every one of them.  She probably could guess what they did before she even finished examining it, but you don't get to her level without checking every possibility one at a time for extras.  When it comes to amateurs," she adds in disgust, "they never run out of new and surprising ways to fuck up, and generally in ways that take them a significant amount of time and effort to pull off."
Dean takes a second to parse that. "They take easy shit and not only get it wrong, but make it harder while still being wrong?"  She nods in genuine despair.  "The more you know.  Can't wait to hear what Wendy found."  Following her to the door, he realizes he should probably mention the--thing.  "Look, about the apprentice thing--"
"You don't have to answer now," she says, grinning at him as she reaches the first step. "Take some time."
"I'll tell you before we go home," he says, not saying 'if we survive' because Cas is right; if you're going to fight, there's literally no reason to believe you're going to lose.  
Holding open the door, she looks back and nods.  "Okay."
They're just leaving Alison's street through the alley when Dean says, "The earth says--uh, sorry about the--thing.  She showed me--uh, anyway, that was supposed to fix it."  He glances at Cas.  "Did it?  For you?  And how? I forgot to ask."
Cas gives him an amused glance.  "While the Xanax hasn't worn off yet to allow more testing, yes, it did.  Why it worked…. The earth's grasp of contamination is probably better than my own; what she showed you was formed to take advantage of it so it would pass to me immediately."
"Good," he says, relieved, then--way too late--realizes something.  "Teresa said the earth couldn't read my mind.  How did it--"
"She didn't read your mind; she showed your mind something, which isn't the same thing," Cas says, and Dean squints at him significantly, because he's not seeing the difference.  "What she did wasn't in your mind; she has no more access to your mind than Alison does.  This--" He pauses briefly.  "You might consider it the equivalent of the earth standing outside your house holding a TV for you to watch through a window."
Dean thinks through the analogy (really good, actually).  "How much did you have to dumb that down?"
"Technically, it's not a lie," Cas admits, and yeah, he figured.  "The earth's binding with you wasn't broken, merely rendered inactive, and while her claim predates my own, mine takes precedence as is my right.  I assure you, she cannot read your mind any more than she can read mine." Dean's preparing anther question when Cas asks,  "Is there something else you want to talk about or do you wish to avoid it altogether by asking for a technical explanation?  You’ve never cared before, but if you truly desire it, I'm willing to indulge your curiosity.  I must warn you, however, that I'll need to acquire several reference texts for you--or reproduce them from memory, as I'm not sure they still exist---and also teach you the languages needed to read them.  Two have never been successfully taught to a human, but there's no reason not to try.  I'll need to assure Vera has an adequate grasp of neurology should surgical intervention be necessary while studying the intermediate grammatical rules governing the use of irregular verbs, especially those referring to events occurring partially out of time or involve spacetime in flux, but--"
"Oh God, shut up. I wasn't--"  He blows out a breath.  "Teresa thinks I should--I mean, she offered--she asked me to consider becoming her apprentice."  He glances at Cas, who nods and says absolutely nothing whatsoever.  "What do you think?"
"She's a very competent instructor," Cas answers.  "If Sudha and Neeraja are any example--"
Should have seen that coming.  "I mean," he interrupts before Cas breaks down exactly what he likes about Teresa's method, "what do you think of--you know, me doing it?"
Cas frowns. "It's your decision, Dean. I'll support whatever you choose."
Reluctantly, he realizes that as the one with actual relationship experience (or Lisa did and tried to teach him), he'll have to break this down.  "It's my decision," he says clearly.  "But that doesn't mean I don't want to hear your opinion.  That's why I asked."
"Oh." Cas considers for several moments, then nods firmly.  "I don't see how it would affect your duties in Chitaqua," he starts, and belatedly, Dean realizes how he should have phrased that.  "I assume Teresa will propose a realistic schedule, but you regularly visit Ichabod already, so you'll simply add meeting with Teresa for further instruction to those visits.  If you mean how the camp will react…." He pauses and Dean is really glad he didn't stop him, because actually, yeah, that's also a thing.  "I don't see any problems.  Training at Chitaqua covered practitioners, of course, but I wasn't specific other than how to identify those who are unethical and the variety of magic they may be exposed to as well as how to deal with the most common types used by those practicing the darker arts.  It would certainly help confirm the practice of magic itself is neutral, and as we now have access to ethical practitioners through our allies, normalize their presence among us should we need their assistance.  Which we most definitely will."
Good to know.  "Cool," he says, because that's genuinely helpful information to have and useful when he cares, but that's not right now.  "How would you feel about it, though? Not as my second," he adds quickly.  Cas frowns, and yeah, he was afraid of that.  "We're--you know.  Partners.  What I do affects you, just like what you do affects me.  You get an opinion and the right to tell me about it.  You're kind of supposed to, actually."
"Oh," Cas says in a completely different voice.  Just as they're reaching the end of the alley, he says,  "It would be strange."
Coming from Cas, that's--yeah, he needs more here. "Okay?"
"As an angel, Creation was my domain. It owed me obedience, and that includes the earth, of course," he explains.  "Even now, however, the earth seems to believe that nothing has changed--though it does find my mortality unsettlingly fascinating--and explanations haven't seemed to clarify matters."
"The earth knows the earth," Dean agrees, adding warily, "Maybe it feels like it knows you better now, being mortal now and everything."
"I received the same impression, which was even more unsettling," he admits, mercifully unaware it might have some specific reasons to be interested in that, thank God. "You gave the earth your service, however temporarily, before we met; should you choose to renew it, there shouldn't be any conflict.  It would be interesting to observe you when you began to practice, however."
He has no idea what that means but apparently he's going to find out--might find out.  If he does it. "Cool." Then, "Conflict?  What conflict?"
"It's not as if the earth would attempt to challenge my claim to you or deny my right to precedence," he continues casually enough that it takes way too long for the words to register as the nightmare fuel they are. "Having to meditate to successfully challenge it to single combat for such a presumption would be--well, needs must, no matter how boring it would be."
Dean stops short to rewind with an option to panic.  "What?"
"You needn't worry," Cas says reassuringly, stopping and turning to face him, like the fact this conversation exists isn't the fucking opposite of reassuring forever. "I'm skilled in combat on all planes of existence.  Even the corporeal, though yes, that did take some time.  I'd win, of course."
Truthfully, he hadn’t even gotten far enough to worry what happened if he lost--this is Cas, after all--due to being stuck at what would happen when he won.  There's a list, each item more horrifying than the last, starting with the personal 'Teresa is gonna bury us alive literally' but also the existential-except-really-fucking-literal 'what happens if you kill the earth?' as the question 'can you?' has just been answered. Of course. "Uh."
"Though the question is moot; the earth can't challenge an angel," Cas finishes, and Dean catches the tiny uptick at the corner of his mouth just before the number of questions reaches three digits and the limits of Dean's presumed claim to sanity (which is doing way better than he would have thought). "Nor can an angel challenge the earth.  Natural law prevails, and even in this form, I doubt either of us feel any need to test that."
Dean would be pretty pissed, but honestly, he's way too fucking relieved. "Fuck you," he says, not sounding anything but 'utterly grateful I don't have to think about this shit ever again'.
Then Cas's expression turns wary and oh God, no. No.  "There is something, however."
Any other time he'd say he can't even imagine what that is, but the last five billion years of his life---or five seconds, whatever--have proved he can imagine a fucking lot.  "What?" he says in resignation, bracing himself.
"The only reason the earth still has any claim on you is because when I rescued you from Hell, and thus established my claim to your soul, the Host didn't consider the earth's prior claim important enough to order me to break it entirely." Dean nods impatiently; good to know, but whatever, get to the part that's gonna star in his next nightmare. "If you choose to do this now," Cas says carefully, and oh God, this is gonna be bad, 'dead earth and all the witches and the US government and Lucifer chasing them' bad, "the earth cannot renew its claim to you without formally requesting my permission and receiving my full consent."
Dean nods again, waiting for the epic horror to come (and getting a little tired of the suspense, come the fuck on).
"What she did tonight--and outside Ichabod's walls during the attack--could technically be considered a violation of my rights if I chose to argue the point, but--" he makes a face, "--that seems rather petty.  She was probably far too excited to find you again to fully consider all the technicalities attached to her actions, and truly, I can't blame her for that."
Dean waits, but--nothing.  "Okay, fine, got it.  Now what's the something you're worried about?" When Cas blinks at him, Dean grits his teeth. "It's bad, I get it. Just say it."
A long moment passes.  "That's all."
Reviewing the last few minutes frantically, he tries to find something and--nothing.  "What do you mean?" he demands, too worried he missed something to risk relief yet.  "What was it? Use small words."
Cas's eyes narrow.  "I would have to give formal permission to the earth to reactivate its claim to you," he says, spacing each word. "As I have claimed your soul.  Your answer to the earth requires my answer be given first."
The part that will get to him later is that it takes him a while to understand why this basic fucking fact is supposed to be new or world-ending drama.  "Yeah, I got that part," he says, spacing each word (with malice afore-fucking-thought).  "That's it?"
For a long moment, Cas searches his face, starting to look uncertain. "I thought the reminder would upset you."
"Upset me?" Dean echoes incredulously.  "That would upset me?  After trying to work out where you run and hide if you killed the earth?  Or if there'd even be a earth. Would there?"
"Yes of course, it would just be--" Cas stops himself, thank God, because there are goddam novels in that 'just' that he doesn't want to read and he can't believe he made such a basic fucking mistake as ask.  Then the corner of Cas's mouth twitches.  "Yes, that's all.   I apologize for alarming you over such a mundane detail.  I'm also flattered that you genuinely seem to believe I can defeat the earth in single combat.  I should be worried that your grasp on reality seems to have become rather poor, but in this case, I don't care. Please continue as you will."
"Whatever," Dean says ungraciously (Cas would totally win, come on) and feels the cold brick of the alley wall against his back for only a second before he's way too distracted by the feel of Cas's mouth.  
Way too soon, Cas eases back, though why, no idea.  "Truly, I do apologize for any distress I may have caused you.  I'll make it up to you."
"Now would be great," Dean says encouragingly, and Cas seems to agree, but then he pulls back again.  "More than that. Way more, come on."
Cas laughs.  "We should get back to headquarters."  Okay, yeah there's that.  With a final kiss, Cas steps back, but cool fingers slide through Dean's, pulling him with him.  "There are a few things we must do today."
And all that, yeah.  With a sigh, Dean nods.
"In regard to Teresa's offer, it's not a decision to be made lightly," Cas says.  "And it certainly should not be made today."
"What do you think?  And don't say it's my decision; I know that," Dean says before Cas can say anything that leads them down more hypothetical paths of potential terror; it's not like they don't have a fucking fear geas already taking care of that, not to mention actual concrete reasons for terror actually in progress.  "I just--I don't know what I'm asking here.  I don't even know why Teresa asked or why it would want me.  Not like it did before."
Hearing the words out loud, though, may just be the answer.  "Dean--"
"It's been over ten years," he says before he can stop himself.  "So why now?"  It's stupid, he gets that, but….  "I mean--to help Teresa, I get that part.  If that's the reason, then I should do it, right?"
"No, it's not." Something in Cas's voice makes him look at him. "Permission denied, at least until I’m sure you haven't lost your mind."
"What?"
"Not that I need to," he adds as Dean jerks his hand away. "The earth wouldn't accept you under these circumstances."
"Why?  The only surprise is she would want me at all.  Either of them!" Dean snaps, stepping back.  "For fuck's sake, Teresa--she doesn't even know I'm--was a demon!"
"You were a demon after you were broken on the rack," Cas says. "You left the Pit of Hell just as you entered it, as you were at the moment of your birth: your soul fully intact, human."
"What I am now doesn't change what I was," he replies.  "And I was in the Pit for longer than I've been alive on earth.  Why would the earth want anything to do with me now if it wasn't for Teresa?"
"You didn't have a clear calling to serve it," Cas answers, like it should be obvious.  "Your calling as a hunter was enough to permit it, but you did not belong to it nor did you want to.  That's the only reason it could let you go at all; it certainly didn't want to."
Dean licks his lips. "You can't know--back then, sure, you'd know, you knew all things.  But now--you gotta see this is different. I'm different now.  You can't know."
Cas looks at him for a long moment.  "A human soul at birth is potential," he says.  "Potential unrealized, but potential for almost anything, anything at all.  No one is born for or to do anything; that is and will always be a choice."
"Prophets--"
"Do you realize how many on earth at any given time carry that potential for divine prophecy?  You can't; I do.  At the moment I fell, fifteen million individuals.  Any of them--quite literally--could become prophets should certain choices be made, certain events occur.  At any given time, a very limited number of that total are actually fit to do so, and even fewer desire it, but that's because they made themselves fit by the life they lived, the choices they made, and the opportunity to do even that is random chance.
"Only certain genetic lines carry the correct sequences to permit them to carry out divine will, much as only certain lines can act as vessel for an angel or avatar of a god, but that too is subject to random chance.  Whether individuals born within those lines will carry the correct sequence, whether they will live long enough to experience those random events, to make those choices, all are subject to the vagaries of chaos.  And that doesn't even include random mutation in the general human population, which is occurring constantly.  Even we were sometimes surprised, or insert equivalent when you know all things."
Sure, he knew angels (by that he means 'everyone not Cas') lied but--  "I was the only one--I mean, besides Dad--that could start the Apocalypse."
"Yes, my Brethren--much like the gods--have a terrible habit of mistaking 'interference' with 'divine will'," Cas says, and something in his voice makes Dean wonder what gods he's talking about.  "Promise, lie, manipulate, threaten, blackmail, extort, even torture a person, a family, an entre genetic line, for centuries, eons, alter events and memories, force choices and assure there is only one answer, then call it predestination and claim there is nothing you can do to escape it.  You must forgive me; perhaps mortality has encouraged a more cynical view of such doings. That natural law permits it--" Cas's expression changes.  "The protections enshrined in natural law for humanity were decided before you were fully sentient and barely adequate even then.  It must have been assumed that more would be added as your development stabilized to maintain the balance."
Despite everything else, Dean has to take a moment to snort.  "Too late now."  Cas starts to answer, then frowns, shaking his head.  "What does any of that have to do with me?"
"They planned you for eons, Dean; the very fabric of human development was warped to create you in this time, this place," Cas says, which sounds a lot like confirmation of the Host no matter what Cas thinks he's saying.  "And truly, you must ask yourself, why?"
"Why what?"
"If your destiny were written with so indelible a pen," he says deliberately, "why would the Host need to do anything but wait for you to fulfill your purpose?  Why would you need them constantly telling you how inescapable your fate was and showing you terrible alternatives to it that could not possibly happen as predestination means only one path?  You know this, Dean.  You are the one who taught me."
Right. He does, actually, know that.
"You can be anything," Cas continues inexorably.  "You were born human; in Hell, you became a demon; you were rescued and became human again.  You're human now. Your time in Hell as a demon--while to be deplored--has no relevance other than it is a part of you, and among the countless other parts that made you who you are now.  You are, were, and will be what you make yourself.  The earth would not ask for what it does not want; Teresa would not have considered offering this unless the earth indicated its agreement; even with its agreement, she wouldn't have offered at all unless she desired it as well.  Who you were when you were in Laredo it could not claim, nor did you want to be; the man you are now is the one that the earth could claim, and--I can only speculate, of course--has some reason to believe you aren't opposed to her doing so."
Dean searches his face.  "What changed?"
Cas's mouth quirks.  "Those called to divine service--it's a myth, that you're born to it, will thee, nil thee; it's a choice, and one made not once but every moment that you serve.  Some seem to feel that call for as long as they can remember, but that's not true of all or even most. Some feel it in adolescence, some in early adulthood, some when they're near the end of their natural lives, and some at any time between.  They don't feel that call, they can't, until they become the person that wants to serve. Even then, they may choose not to, for many reasons or none at all; that's your right as a human."
"So you're saying that now I'm--that I'm feeling it now?"  he demands.  "I think I'd know if I felt it! Wouldn't I?"
"There's no way I could confirm or deny that, even if I could read your mind," Cas concedes.  "But I do have a question: why did you ask me how I'd feel if you did?"
"Because you're my partner," Dean answers. "If you weren't okay with it, then I wasn't going to do it."
"If you truly didn't want to do it, it wouldn't have occurred to you to ask," Cas says reasonably.  "If you did ask, you would have asked questions with answers you already knew, answers that would support the decision you had already made.  Assuming you wouldn't have told Teresa no immediately, which noticeably, you did not do."
Dean doesn't answer; even if he wanted to argue, he can't, because--yeah.  
"Teresa's tradition isn't an easy one," Cas muses.  "It demands adherence to a very strict ethical standard with very little, if any, deviation.  I understand why when you first met Constanza that her tradition appealed to you; you hold yourself to the same standard, though you do not tolerate even imagined deviation.  Truly, it might be good for you to be exposed to those who permit--even encourage--mistakes when made in good faith.  It might let you learn to accept the possibility of forgiving yourself for your own, or at very least, those you imagine you might possibly make at some point or could have made in the past but didn't."
Dean rolls his eyes. "Bullshit.  I don't--"  He stops at the incredulous expression on Cas's face.  "Where are you getting this from?  I don't do that."
"You're technically correct, in the sense that I was being extremely tactful while still avoiding an outright lie, the line between those being very nearly invisible," Cas says flatly. "I completely excluded your propensity to judge yourself for mistakes made, might have been made, or could have been made, by entirely different people, at different times, under entirely different conditions, and each and every single variation of such that you can imagine, which from my experience is truly infinite in number or so close it might as well be."  Dean shuts his mouth, which isn't admitting shit, it's just--it's really early, weird shit happened and it's not even dawn yet and he needs more coffee.  "We'll discuss that another time--I'll need a great deal of alcohol, I suspect. As I said, your decision can wait."
Dean nods, glancing out at the street, fighting the urge to tell Cas that if Cas wanted to talk about it (or anything), he's okay with that and Headquarters can wait.  It won't, though, and it's not just the rest of the day waiting for them; there's Joe.
Not thinking about it was great, but it can't last forever; nothing does. He's got to deal with what his fuck up means to Chitaqua, to his teams, the command structure, he's got to tell Cas; it's bullshit that he is even thinking about he also lost the first person outside his own family, outside Cas, that was the closest thing he'd ever had to a real friend, the kind that sticks around for life. Like that fucking matters when the world is about to fucking end.
"Yeah," he says, starting toward the mouth of the alley without deviation.  "Let's go."
@@@@@@
